>> Summary ~ 10411000.011

Silence binds us together.

>> Summary ~ 10411000.012

We share the depth of perfect silence and wisdom supreme. We abide as
the thought of Love in form.

>> Summary ~ 10411000.013

In the depth of perfect silence there are no mates, no careers, no
loss, no gain, no pain, no suffering. Here alone, the Truth remains
shimmering within you.

Jeshua is here.

This is the Heart of all Creation, the still and silent place of Perfect
Peace.

>> Summary ~ 10411000.016

If you would hear only loving thoughts allow your attention to settle
deeply into this place, beyond time, beyond the body, beyond the dream
of the world. This place is the Kingdom of Heaven within you and is vast
beyond comprehension.

It is the place of all certainty, the place of perfect power to fulfill
the loving thoughts with which your Creater has caressed you. The way to
fulfill each loving vision. The source of all wisdom wpon which you can
draw to recreate yourself to be the presence of Christ Incarnate.

Here is the straight and narrow path that leads unto Life. That Light
lives in the depth of a Silent Heart. Silence is the doorway to Wisdom
Divine. (Heaven)

>> Summary ~ 10412000.015

Silence is the threshold to perfect Wisdom Divine. No need to seek for
the place is prepared for you and you need only go to it.

>> Summary ~ 10510000.01

You are as you are created to be. Wherever you are, enlightenment is but
a decision away. The decision to release the insane valuation that you
have placed upon everything and everyone, most especially yourself. That
decision rests on your willingness to cultivate silence which is the
threshold to wisdom divine.

>> Summary ~ 10510000.012

Genuine silence which is the threshold to wisdom (or enlightenment)
requires the cultivation of deep self-honesty. Honesty is that act in
which the mind is no longer committed to hiding from its own darkness.

>> Summary ~ 10510000.048

Silence is the doorway that will dissolve the ego forever. The principle
cornerstone of silence is deep self-honesty.

The WOT is a process whereby you put the squeeze on the ego because you
just want to be done with it.

>> Summary ~ 10511000.003

When any mind surrenders its identification with its illusions, its own
thoughts, needs, and perceived desires, and rests into perfect silence,
it rests into the Voice for Love.

