---
ref: "D.1"
title: "Acceptance of the State of Grace of the Newly Identified Child of God"
---

Jeshua comes as a co-creator of the Self we are and the Self we hope to
represent with our physical form.

In our union we bear the sameness of the Son of God.

In going forth with the vision of unity we become as he was during life:

* You receive and give from the well of spirit
* You need not prepare or plan
* You need only to claim your gifts, your Self

This means you let the personal self step back and the true Self step
forward.

As long as you see the foibles of the personal self you blind yourself
to the new, the Self of elevated form, the true Self of divine union. In
seeing in this way you keep the personal self in the forefront rather
than allowing and aiding the personal self to step back and the true
Self to step forward.

truggle occurs because you are not convinced your are done learning,
done preparing. Yet you know you have been prepared by me and in union
with me you cannot fail.

Your minds acceptance of this truth is what is needed.

Your heart knows this new reality is real and different from the reality
of old.

The mind and heart in union together accept this new reality and, with
this acceptance, the heart is freed to dwell in the new world that has
already been prepared.

This acceptance is crucial to the elevation of the personal self.
Without it the personal must still struggle and try, prepare and plan.
It does not know how to do otherwise.

With the surrender of the control of the personal self, the ego gone,
the personal self can move within the world without an identity, humble
and selfless and ineffective.

This is a danger in this time. You are not called to selflessness but to
Self.

To die of the personal self is not what is required, we work instead to
elevate the personal self. Elevation occurs through the acceptance of
your true identity not through being identity-less.

Help is here.

Open your dwelling place to your true Self, your true identity. Imagine
this opening and this replacement occurring with every fiber of your
being. Imagine the separate self being enfolded, embraced, and finally
consumed - taken into the Self of union.

This thought makes you worry about the identity of the one you have
called yourself and we invite a new identity now. We go to what can only
be known within, it is to this state of grace that I call you know, The
state of grace of the newly identified child of God.

Open your heart, for the one who dwells there in union with all will
emerge from this opening.

You are in grace and union with the Sourse and Cause of unity. Be no
longer causeless. You and your Source are one.

You cannot be taught what unity would freely give. The goal is no longer
learning. The goal is accepting the identity that has always been yours.

To know and not accept what you know to be the truth is a continuation
of the pattern of insanity that must be replaced with a pattern of
sanity.

Insanity is acting as if the truth is not the truth.

Sanity is accepting the truth as your reality and acting from that
truth.

What I will help you now to do is to reject this insanity and to accept
the perfect sanity of the truth.

Learning will not complete the transformation of the personal self to
the elevated Self. Learning will not sustain Christ-consciousness.

So what is our continuing means for completing this transformation? This
will not occur by means of preparation but by means of acceptance. This
will not occur by means of trying but by means of surrender.

What I say to you here, I say to you. It matters not that I say these
same words to many.

In order for the truth to be truly learned, you first had to enter a
state in which this learning could occur, a state that could not be
taught but only accessed through your longing and desire.

You who have joined mind and heart in unity have returned to a natural
state of knowing in which learning is no longer needed. You have now
come upon a curriculum that is impossible to learn.

Many of you still feel you need a teacher for you dare not, as yet, turn
to your own heart and trust the knowing that has been returned to you as
you begin to live in the reality of the truth.

If you fully accepted your true identity, you would no longer look
outside of yourself for guidance for you would realize that your Self is
all there is.

We are one body, one Christ. We are on Self.

Your Self is not the person you have been since birth. What you once saw
as yourself, you now must come to see only as a representation of your
Self.

You are everything and everyone. All that you see is you. You stand not
separate and apart from anything.

We are one body.

Acceptance of your true identity cannot be taught but is the condition
necessary for being who you are and the realization that learning is no
longer necessary.

We now work toward your acceptance of what you have learned in unity.
Towards your acceptance of sanity and rejection of insanity. We work
together in love and unity as one body, one Christ, one Self.

## Personal Self

All of your concerns are for the personal self.

* A self you belive can fail to live your mission and purpose
* This failure comes through lack of abilities of the personal self
    * Ineptness of speech
    * inappropriateness of attire
    * lack of physical stamina
    * lack of intelligence

A separated self still trying and struggling and fumbling along not
knowing how to prepare for what is ahead.

With the ego gone the personal self can continue to move within the
world without an identity, humble and selfless and ineffective.

## Elevation of the Personal Self

Elevation occurs through acceptance of your true identity not through
being identity-less.

## Elevated Self of Form

Also known as:
  * The true Self
  * The Self of divine union

As the elevated Self you receive and give from the well of spirit. You
need not prepare or plan you need only claim your gifts, your Self.

The natural grace and order of the universe extends into the space of the
elevated Self.

## Mind

The mind wants to figure out what to do to prepare and has not accepted
that union with Jeshua is all the preparation needed.

## Heart

The Heart knows the truth that we are the accomplished and failure in
union with Jeshua is impossible.

## Acceptance

The minds acceptance of this new reality is crucial to the elevation of
the personal self.

This acceptance is the final surrender, the surrender of the control of
the personal self.

Acceptance and surrender are the means for the transformation of the personal
self to the elevated Self.

## The Goal

The goal is no longer learning, the goal is accepting the identity that
has always been yours.

The goal is the transformation of the personal self to the elevated
Self, the sustaining of Christ-consciousness.

## Insanity

Insanity is acting as if the truth is not the truth.

## Sanity

Sanity is accepting the truth as your reality and acting from that
truth.

## Learning

Accepting the perfect sanity of the truth cannot be done through
learning, learning was the means of the separated self's return to
unity.

The lessons of learning can serve as reminders as you continue to become
the Self you have learned that you are.

But further learning is not what will complete the transformation of the
personal self to the elevated Self. Learning will not sustain
Christ-consciousness.

Learning accepts that there are those separate from you who know things
that you know not. This is not the case.

## Body

Your body does not contain you.

What once you saw as yourself you now must come to see only as a
representation of your Self.

## Self

Your Self is not the person you have been since birth. You are
everything and everyone. All that you see is you. You stand not separate
and apart from anything.

## Necessary Condition

Acceptance of what you have learned in unity is crucial to the elevation
of the personal self. Without it the personal must still struggle and
try, prepare and plan. It does not know how to do otherwise.

Acceptance of your true identity cannot be taught but is the condition
necessary for being who you are and the realization that learning is no
longer necessary.

