---
ref: "D.2"
title: "Acceptance and Denial"
---

You are now asked to accept the new and to deny the old. Acceptance is a
willingness to receive.

Those who have found an ability to receive and left behind the effort to
learn we continue here the work of replacing the old patterns of
learning with the new patterns of acceptance.

To deny is to refuse to accept as true or right that which you know is
not true or right.

This is the denial of insanity in favor of the acceptance of sanity.
Denial and acceptance are one action just as means and end, cause and
effect are one.

You are asked to accept the truth of who you are and the revelations
that will show you how to live as who you are within the world - and you
are asked to refuse to accept who you are not and the ways of life that
allowed you to live within the world as a false self.

The patterns of the new arise naturally when you deny the patterns of
the old.

You are no longer a victim to the circumstance of a split mind and must
understand that you do know and you will know (what you do) as soon as
the patterns of the old have been denied.

The pattern of learning has achieved its desired end and is no longer
appropriate and will interfere with your full acceptance of who you are
in truth.

You have learned the true nature of who you are.

To learn the truth and not accept the truth is insane. To learn the
truth and not accept the completion of your learning is insane.

If you do not realize that you have learned all the you need to learn
you will retain the consciousness of the separated self rather than
sustaining Christ-consciousness.

It is proper now to deny the modes of learning even when they seemed to
have worked for you in the past.

What "works for you" is really a game of chance, you give it a try and
if the outcome is as desired you call it a success otherwise you call it
a failure.

Patterns seen as not "working for you" are those that are beyond your
personal control. You have believed that the more details of life you
have under your control or under control of a benevolent system such as
government the more likely you are to experience desired outcomes.

Either way, control is seen as a powerful pattern.

All patterns are an aspect of learning and the function of learning was
to return you to your true identity.

We are now working for the integration of your true identity into the
self of form, or the elevation of the personal self, so new patterns are
needed.

Systems are the result of your attempt to externalize patterns. Looking
at systems can help you understand the nature of patterns.

The justice system is a good example of a system that you believe works
most of the time. You believe that no system is foolproof and are still
willing to accept the bad with the good.

Your systems are based up the misperceptions of a split mind that does
not think clearly. Your desire to cling to systems that are not
foolproof is insane.

All systems have been based upon your desire to understand the world
around you rather than the world within you. They would not be needed if
you were to understand the world within.

In truth, no new learning or new systems based on the learning patterns
of the old will work.

Thus we begin anew.

The seeming difficulty with this new beginning is your desire to learn
anew. You would want me to teach you a new way and would work hard to
put it into effect.

What this reveals is a pattern in itself, a pattern of reaction rather
than cause. It is a pattern of looking without and wondering what to do
about what you see rather than a pattern of changing what you see by
looking within.

Within is where the real world and all your brothers and sisters exist
in the unity of Christ-consciousness. Looking within is turning to the
real Self and the consciousness shared by all for the creation of a new
answer, the answer to the only remaining question; that of how to
sustain Christ-consciousness in form.

Acceptance of the new and denial of the old is the necessary forerunner
of our work together in establishing the Covenant of the New.

## Necessary Condition

If you do not realize that you have learned all the you need to learn
you will retain the consciousness of the separated self rather than
sustaining Christ-consciousness.

## Insanity

To learn the truth and not accept the truth is insane. To learn the
truth and not accept the completion of your learning is insane.

The patterns of the old are insane.

## Acceptance

Acceptance is a willingness to receive. When you consider this
definition you will see that it is not a way of the old.

## The Old

Willingness to receive is quite contrary to the attitudes and actions
with which you have led your life thus far.

The patterns of the old have at times provided you with a false
certainty that are difficult to deny.

The pattern of "what works for you" is a pattern of the old. This is a
pattern of trial and error and no sure results are counted on.

The ability to control to effect the desired outcome is a pattern of the
old.

Patterns and systems are related to learning and therefore examples of
the old.

## The New

Sustaining Christ-consciousness.

## The Work

The work of this Course is replacing the old patterns of learning with
the new pattern of acceptance.

You are asked to accept the truth of who you are and the revelations
that will show you how to live as who you are within the world - and you
are asked to refuse to accept who you are not and the ways of life that
allowed you to live withing the world as a false self.

We are now working for the integration of your true identity into the
self of form, or the elevation of the personal self, so new patterns are
needed.

## Patterns

All patterns are related to learning.

Systems are the result of your attempts to externalize patterns.
Patterns are contained within. Looking at the patterns you have
attempted to externalize can help you understand the nature of patterns.

D.2.20-21 The pattern of trying to solve problems by looking without and
wondering what to do rather than a pattern of changing what you see by
looking within.

## Systems

Systems are externalized patterns and are accepted as working most of
the time but certainly not foolproof. The justice system is an example.

Your misperceptions of the world have allowed for the development of no
foolproof systems because these systems are based on misperception or
illusion.

All systems have been based upon your desire to understand the world
around you rather than the world within you. They would not be needed if
you were to understand the world within.

## Illusion or Misperception

Your misperceptions of the world have allowed for the development of no
foolproof systems because these systems are based upon misperceptions or
illusions.

Misperceptions arise from a split mind that does not think clearly.

D.2.19 An example of misperception resulting in the justice system.

## Learning

All patterns are an aspect of learning.

The pattern of learning was of divine design created in unity and
cooperation to enable the return to unity. This pattern is no longer
needed or appropriate and will interfere with your full acceptance of
who you are in truth.

Learning is now complete and has revealed the true nature of who you
are. Your inability to realize your completion and claim your new
identity cannot be seen as acceptable or appropriate.

The only function of the separated self was learning. The function of
all learning was to return you to your true identity.

## Denial

(Definition) To deny is to refuse to accept as true or right that which you know is
not true or right.

Denial of the old is to deny yourself the use of the old so that the new
can serve you. To deny the modes of learning in favor of simple
acceptance of what is.

## Within

* Where the real world and all your brothers and sisters exist in the
  unity of Christ-consciousness.
* Change within effects change without, not the other way around.
* Within is where you look to your own heart, rather than to any other
  authority, for advice or guidance.
* Within is where you find the knowing of Christ-consciousness, the
  consciousness of unity.
* Within is where you find the power of creation.
* Looking within is not an attempt to find the answers of the personal
  self of old.
* Looking within is turning to the real Self and the consciousness
  shared by all for the creation of a new answer, the answer to the only
remaining question; that of how to sustain Christ-consciousness in form.


