---
ref: "D.3"
title: "The Covenant of the New"
---

The Covenant of the New is simply our agreement to proceed together on
the palm-strewn path of Christ-consciousness.

All that it requires is the acceptance of the new and the denial of the
old that will allow for the sustainability of Christ-consciousness in
form.

This is the call that you have heard for as long as you can remember as
often as you have grown still and listened. It is not of the past or
future but of the eternal now.

It is within you as we speak.

It asks you to invest your life with the very purpose you have always
desired. Your life is not meaningless.

Your work is to accept the new and deny or refuse to accept the old.
Only in this way will the new triumph over the old.

As the wholehearted you have been returned to the oneness and unity of
Christ-consciousness, the Self.

You have it within you to mend the rift of duality and return the world
to its Self.

The mending of the rift between heart and mind returned you to your
Self. The mending of the rift of duality was accomplished in you when
you joined mind and heart and returned to the oneness and unity of
Christ-consciousness.

Sustaining Christ-consciousness will return the world to
the oneness and unity of Christ-consciousness.

In the time of the Holy Spirit you learned through contrast; good and
evil, weak and strong, right and wrong, love and fear, sickness and
health, life and death. Such learning in the time of Christ is no longer
necessary.

One of your fist acts of acceptance is the acceptance of the end of the
conditions of learning.

This does not mean that you accept goodness and deny evil or accept love
and deny fear for if you give credence to the ideas of contrast you
bring those ideas forward with you into the new.

We let the old go and with it all ideas of contrast and opposites, of
conflict and opposing forces. There are no battles needed, no victories
hard won through might and struggle.

This is what is meant by surrender. We achieve victory now through
surrender, an active and total acceptance of what is given.

Ideas that address your true nature as a being existing in union, ideas
to carry forward. The first one is:

*Giving and Receiving as One*

These are new ideas to you because you have recently learned them and
through the art of thought begun to integrate them into the elevated
Self of form.

These are really not new ideas, but ideas of who you truly are birthed
within the self of form so that the Self and the elevated Self of form
are able to work with ideas birthed from the same source.

Ideas of who you truly are, birthed by the wholehearted self in union
with all, are the ideas that will allow new patterns to emerge and the
design of the future to be created.

These are the ideas (the new to carry forward) that replace the learned
concepts (the old) we leave behind.

All of these ideas have a common quality of oneness. Oneness replaces
duality or contrast.

You will be seeking now for replacements for what formerly ordered your
life, we speak now of these replacements.

Giving and receiving as one is senseless in terms related to a shared
consciousness but it is not senseless when that shared consciousness is
occupying form.

All ideas leave not their source thus giving and receiving is an idea
that exists apart from form. Giving and receiving are one within the
shared consciousness of unity.

A shared consciousness is the truth of who you are.

The elevation of the personal self requires that this giving and
receiving as one be shared in form. The elevated form, which represents
the shared consciousness of the Self, is not separate from the shared
consciousness. Thus giving and receiving as one is now the nature of the
elevated Self of form and we work toward, in this dialogue, your full
awareness of what this means.

You know what you need to know. What we seek to achieve through this
dialogue is acceptance and awareness of what you know - this is not
helping you to learn.

Acceptance is easily achieved through willingness.

Full awareness in form of what has previously been hidden by the mists
of illusion is the more challenging task.

Giving and receiving as one has become one in form as well as one in
idea. This means that giving and receiving occur in unison, or in union.
There is no "time" in which giving and receiving is not occurring.

Giving and receiving as one simply describes the nature of the new, the
nature of shared consciousness.

You, as the elevated Self of form, are a continual representation of all
of your brothers and sisters in Christ. You are a representation of the
truth. You are a representation of all that is given and received in
truth. You are a representation of creation. A representation of union.
You are a representation of the Self.

As the Self, you are giver and receiver. Your Self is a full participant
in this dialogue. You as the Self are the truth. You as the Self are the
creator and the created. You as the Self are union itself.

This is what awareness is about. Consciousness has to do with that of
which you are aware. To know what you now know, and remain aware only of
the reality of the separated self, would not sustain
Christ-consciousness in form.

You must realize your oneness with me and all that was created and you
cannot do so while you think of me as teacher and yourself as student.
While you think of yourself as a learning being you will still be
looking to something or someone "other" than your Self rather than
seeking the awareness that exists within.

There is a difference in form between the Self and the elevated Self of
form.

The Self was and will always remain more than the body. The body,
however, is also newly the Self. The body is also, newly, one body, one
Christ.

It is this difference that exists between the Self and the elevated Self
of form that makes of us creators of the new, because the elevated Self
of form is new.

One of the major things we will be seeing as we proceed is the
difference between form and content and the difference in the way
separate forms express content. It will be challenging to become aware
that different expressions do not make different.

As the system of nature supports the life of many different trees, the
trees are all still of one life-giving and life-supporting system. Can
this be said of any of the systems you have developed as a learning
being? Are your systems life-giving and life-supporting?

The patterns of the new will create only such life-giving and
life-supporting systems -- as long as the patterns of the new are
accepted and lived with your full awareness.

As a separated self you have already learned this concept of giving and
receiving and for the elevated Self of form it is simply a shared
quality of oneness. It is not in need of learning or even understanding.

It is.

Awareness of what is, is a quality of Christ-consciousness. You are
already aware of the truth of giving and receiving being one. This
awareness exists within you.

They are your ideas as well as mine. They are the ideas of your brothers
and sisters as much as they are of God.

I am teaching you nothing old and nothing new. I am reminding you of
what you know as I have reminded you of your identity.

All that you need in order to create the new is available within you.
The power of the universe is given and received constantly in support of
the creation of the new.

This is what creation is!

The entire universe, the All of All, giving and receiving as one. This
is our power.

And our power is needed for the creation of the Covenant of the New in
this time of Christ.

## Wholehearted

As the wholehearted you have it within your ability to do what those who
live their lives with a split mind could never do.

As the wholehearted you have mended the rift between the heart and the mind
returning you to the Self, the oneness and unity of Christ-consciousness.

## Christ-consciousness

The consciousness of unity and oneness of the wholehearted.

## Sustenance

Sustaining Christ-consciousness will do for the world what the union of
heart and mind has done for the wholehearted, bring the oneness and
unity of Christ-consciousness to the world.

## Duality

Duality was necessary for the learning of the separated self but that is
no longer necessary.

Duality and contrast are synonymous.

## Learning

In the time of the Holy Spirit you learned through contrast; good and
evil, weak and strong, right and wrong, love and fear, sickness and
health, life and death. Such learning in the time of Christ is no longer
necessary.

Helping you to achieve full awareness of who you are is different than
helping you to learn.

You must realize your oneness with me and all that was created and you
cannot do so while you think of me as teacher and yourself as student.
While you think of yourself as a learning being you will still be
looking to something or someone "other" than your Self rather than
seeking the awareness that exists within.

## The Old

Ideas of contrast and opposites, of conflict and opposing forces.

## The New

The Covenant of the New is simply our agreement to proceed together on
the palm-strewn path of Christ-consciousness.

All that it requires is the acceptance of the new and the denial of the
old that will allow for the sustainability of Christ-consciousness in
form.

---

The patterns of the new will create only such life-giving and
life-supporting systems (as the system of nature) -- as long as the
patterns of the new are accepted and lived with your full awareness.

---

Giving and receiving as one simply describes the nature of the new, the
nature of shared consciousness.

---

I am teaching you nothing old and nothing new. I am reminding you of
what you know as I have reminded you of your identity.

All that you need in order to create the new is available within you.
The power of the universe is given and received constantly in support of
the creation of the new.

This is what creation is!

The entire universe, the All of All, giving and receiving as one. This
is our power.

And our power is needed for the creation of the Covenant of the New in
this time of Christ.

## Surrender

We let the old go and with it all ideas of contrast and opposites, of
conflict and opposing forces. There are no battles needed, no victories
hard won through might and struggle.

This is what is meant by surrender. We achieve victory now through
surrender, an active and total acceptance of what is given.

## Oneness

Oneness replaces duality or contrast.

## Elevated Self of Form

Giving and receiving as one is senseless in terms related to a shared
consciousness but it is not senseless when that shared consciousness is
occupying form.

All ideas leave not their source thus giving and receiving is an idea
that exists apart from form. Giving and receiving are one within the
shared consciousness of unity.

A shared consciousness is the truth of who you are.

The elevation of the personal self requires that this giving and
receiving as one be shared in form. The elevated form, which represents
the shared consciousness of the Self, is not separate from the shared
consciousness. Thus giving and receiving as one is now the nature of the
elevated Self of form and we work toward, in this dialogue, your full
awareness of what this means.

---

You, as the elevated Self of form, are a continual representation of all
of your brothers and sisters in Christ. You are a representation of the
truth. You are a representation of all that is given and received in
truth. You are a representation of creation. A representation of union.
You are a representation of the Self.

---

There is a difference in form between the Self and the elevated Self of
form.

The Self was and will always remain more than the body. The body,
however, is also newly the Self. The body is also, newly, on body, one
Christ.

The Self is eternal. Your Self of elevated form is newly birthed.

---

As a separated self you have already learned this concept of giving and
receiving and for the elevated Self of form it is simply a shared
quality of oneness. It is not in need of learning or even understanding. 

It is.

## Acceptance

Acceptance is easily achieved through willingness.

## Christ-consciousness

Awareness of what is, is a quality of Christ-consciousness. You are
already aware of the truth of giving and receiving being one. This
awareness exists within you.

## Self

As the Self, you are giver and receiver. Your Self is a full participant
in this dialogue. You as the Self are the truth. You as the Self are the
creator and the created. You as the Self are union itself.

The Self is eternal. Your Self of elevated form is newly birthed.

## Systems

As the system of nature supports the life of many different trees, the
trees are all still of one life-giving and life-supporting system. Can
this be said of any of the systems you have developed as a learning
being? Are your systems life-giving and life-supporting?

## Jeshua

I am teaching you nothing old and nothing new. I am reminding you of
what you know as I have reminded you of your identity.

## Creation

I am teaching you nothing old and nothing new. I am reminding you of
what you know as I have reminded you of your identity.

All that you need in order to create the new is available within you.
The power of the universe is given and received constantly in support of
the creation of the new.

This is what creation is!

