---
ref: "D.4"
title: "The New You"
---

The Covenant of the New is your agreement with God to be the new.

As you are new so too is God, for you are one if not the same. As you
are new so too is the world, for you are one if not the same. As you are
new so are your brothers and sisters, for they too, are one, if not the
same.

While not the same, you also are not different.

The differences you saw during the time of learning, differences that
made you feel as if each being stood separate and alone, you are now
called to see no more.

In unity you are whole and inseparable, one living organism now raised
above the level of the organism as you become aware of unity of form.

It is time now for this idea to be accepted, for if it is not, you will
remain in the prison you have created.

Prison is an excellent example of a system you created with your faulty
perception. As with all systems, it reflects and inward state and shows
you what becomes of all of those who see not what it means to be neither
different nor the same but to be one.

Each of you has had an imprisoned personal self. Each of you who have
entered Christ-consciousness has had the cell door and the prison gate
thrown open and a new world offered.

Note: he's mentioned consequences before of not accepting the new, as he
does below. Make sure to note those in Curio.

If you do not accept this opportunity, you remain incarcerated in a
system that tells you when you will awaken, how you will spend your day
and when you will retire. You remain at the mercy of those incarcerated
with you and those that would have power over you, and you remain
subject to the laws of man.

Until you are living as who you are and doing what you love, you are in
prison. This prison is as much of your own making as the actual prison
systems that developed when shape and form was given to what you fear
and what you believe will protect you.

Just as an actual prisoner when released you must adjust to your new
freedom.

The thought of time in prison fills the mind with fear and yet those
imprisoned can become so acclimated to prison life that life on the
outside is no longer seen as desirable.

A life of artificial structure is all any of you have known. An
internally structured life will quickly replace the life of the inmate
if you will but let it do so.

Your prison was created by the separated thoughts of the separated
thought "system". Systems are the result of your attempts to externalize
the patterns contained within. Patterns are both of learning and of
design.

Let's look at each of these terms.

Divine design could also be called creation. A divine design created the
universe and all that is in it.

You may still believe in a divine design without accepting that a divine
design exists and that you are part of it. Remember our goal is to deny
the old and accept the new.

The old that you would deny is the idea of a purposeless existence, a universe
with no divine order, a life in which you are at the mercy of fate.

The new idea you are asked to accept is that existence is purposeful,
that the universe exists in divine order, and that your life is part of
that divine design.

Divine patterns are the patterns that made your existence in form
possible as well as the patterns that have made your return to your true
identity possible.

These patterns are both external and internal.

External divine patterns include the observable forms that make up your
world, from the earth to the stars to your body and the animal and plant
life that exists around you.

Despite the differences in what you see, think, and feel, there is but
one external divine pattern that created the observable world and only
one internal divine pattern that created the internal world.

The internal divine pattern was that of learning.

The two patterns were created together to exist in a complementary
fashion.

Both of these divine patterns are being newly recreated. Thus far, we
are merely working together to create a pattern of acceptance to replace
the pattern of learning.

Systems of thought are both divinely inspired and products of the
separated self.

The idea of giving and receiving as one might be thought of as a
divinely inspired system of thought.

The truth is a system of thought. It exists in wholeness and has always
been available.

Systems of thought are the foundation upon which how you live arises.

Contrast, part of the divine pattern, is a system of thought that arose
from the separated self. As a learning being you accepted that you
learned through contrast. It was upon this foundation and other thought
systems that your perception developed.

Through contrast you identified and classified the world around you
based upon the differences, or contrast that you saw.

The ego is a system of thought that was not part of the divine pattern.
It is thought externalized and given an identity you falsely believed to
be yourself. From this one externalized thought pattern came most of
your false ideas, ideas that made it difficult even for the divinely
inspired thought systems to provide the learning they were designed to
impart.

Such is the case with learning by contrast. Additionally, believing the
ego and become an externalized self took you, the true Self and the true
learner, out of the learning loop.

These systems, built upon patterns now being recreated, are part of the
old.

Externalized patterns, or systems, were also built from the systems of
thought that have been your foundation, the basic building blocks of
what you have seen as reality.

These systems too are part of the old.

All we are left with is divine design. All we are left with is what was
given: A divine universe, a divine existence.

That divine universe, our divine existence, is now recreating the
patterns that served the time of learning.

What was learned in the instant in which you came to know your Self is
all that learning was for.

Let us dwell not on the past. Let us simply create a new structure
around the new pattern of acceptance, a structure that will provide you
with the home on Earth you have so long sought and used your faulty
systems to but attempt to replicate.

A structure that will provide you with parameters in which to begin to
experience your new freedom. The unlimited freedom offered you is too
vast for your comfort. Without limiting this freedom at all, let us
speak of a place and a way to begin to experience it, and of a place and
a way to begin to create the new.

This place and this way begins at the prison doors, it begins with
acceptance of the new and denial of the old. Turn your back on the
prison of your former existence and do not look at it again.

Instead see the world anew and rejoice in it, just as you would have had
you literally spent your life within a prison's walls. Breathe the sweet
air of freedom. Be aware constantly of the sky above your head and
desire no more ceilings to shield you from it.

Be aware of gifts offered in exchange for your newfound freedom.

* If you have imprisoned yourself in order to earn a living by doing
what brings you no joy and allows you not to be who your are, then you
are called to walk away.
* If you are tempted by a relationship in which you cannot be fully
yourself because of the security it provides, you are called to turn
away.
* If you are lured away from who you are by a drive to succeed, if you
fear doing what you want to do because you might fail, if you follow
another's path and seek not your own, then you have imprisoned yourself.

You cannot deny the old and remain in the prison of the old. The
permission you seek must come from your own heart and from your
commitment to the Covenant of the new.

There is no authority to whom you can turn. In the place of that
"outside" authority I give you your own authority, and authority you
must claim in order for it to be your own. An authority you must claim
before your externally structured life can become an internally
structured life.

Let this acceptance of your own authority be your first "act" of
acceptance rather than learning. Turn to this as the new pattern and to
the thought system of giving and receiving as one. Let the authority of
the new be given and received.

Become the author of your own life. Live it as you feel called to live
it. Whatever imprisons you must now be left behind.

You cannot keep your prison and have the new life that you long to have.
You may have to examine just what it is that imprisons you. You may find
that it is attitude more so than circumstance.

I tell you truly, your release is at hand and it will come from your own
authority and no place else. It is up to you to accept that your release
is possible, to desire it without fear, to call it into being.

What is one, or in union with all, draws from the well of divine design.
You need not turn to old patterns to accomplish your release. You can
only turn to what it, to what is left now that the patterns and systems
of learning are no longer.

You accept that what has been given is available. You accept and you
receive.

The first order of creation of the new is restoration of the original
order, or original design. You have been returned to your Self, now your
life must be returned to where it fits withing the divine design, to
where it is a life of meaning and purpose.

This return is the return of wholeness. It returns wholeness to you and
wholeness to the divine design. It returns creation to what it is.

This cannot be fearful and cannot fail. Your part is to invite it and
accept it when it comes. State your willingness, accept the coming of
your release, and prepare to leave your prison behind.

Invite this simply by inviting what brings you joy. Invite yourself
first to this new world, but leave not your brothers and sisters behind.
Invite them too.

Those who are imprisoned are one with you and need but your release to
find their own.

As you fully accept that your right to your inheritance, your right to
be who you are, and your commitment to the Covenant of the New, are one
in the same, you will see that there is one answer, an answer different
for everyone and yet the same for everyone.

That answer is acceptance of your Self. That answer is acceptance of the
new you.

--- topics ---------------------------

## Authority

You cannot deny the old and remain in the prison of the old. The
permission you seek must come from your own heart and from your
commitment to the Covenant of the new.

There is no authority to whom you can turn. In the place of that
"outside" authority I give you your own authority, and authority you
must claim in order for it to be your own. An authority you must claim
before your externally structured life can become an internally
structured life.

## Separated Thought System

Your prison was created by the separated thoughts of the separated
thought "system".

## Prison

Prison is an excellent example of a system you created with your faulty
perception. As with all systems, it reflects and inward state and shows
you what becomes of all of those who see not what it means to be neither
different nor the same but to be one.

## System

Prison is an excellent example of a system.

The separated thought system is also a system.

Systems are the result of your attempts to externalize the patterns
contained within. Patterns are both of learning and of design.

The ego is thought system not of divine design.

## Patterns

Systems are the result of your attempts to externalize
the patterns contained within. Patterns are both of learning and of
design.

## Divine Patterns

Divine patterns are the patterns that made your existence in form
possible as well as the patterns that have made your return to your true
identity possible.

These patterns are both external and internal.

External divine patterns include the observable forms that make up your
world, from the earth to the stars to your body and the animal and plant
life that exists around you.

Despite the differences in what you see, think, and feel, there is but
one external divine pattern that created the observable world and only
one internal divine pattern that created the internal world.

The internal divine pattern was that of learning.

## Acceptance

In unity you are whole and inseparable, one living organism now raised
above the level of the organism as you become aware of unity of form.

It is time now for this idea to be accepted, for if it is not, you will
remain in the prison you have created.

---

Instead see the world anew and rejoice in it, just as you would have had
you literally spent your life within a prison's walls. Breathe the sweet
air of freedom. Be aware constantly of the sky above your head and
desire no more ceilings to shield you from it.

---

Let this acceptance of your own authority be your first "act" of
acceptance rather than learning. Turn to this as the new pattern and to
the thought system of giving and receiving as one. Let the authority of
the new be given and received.

Become the author of your own life. Live it as you feel called to live
it. Whatever imprisons you must now be left behind.

## The New

This Covenant is the fulfillment of the agreement between you and God.
The agreement is for you to be the new.

---

The new idea you are asked to accept is that existence is purposeful,
that the universe exists in divine order, and that your life is part of
that divine design.

---

A pattern of acceptance.

## The Old

The differences you saw during the time of learning, differences that
made you feel as if each being stood separate and alone, you are now
called to see no more.

A life of artificial structure is all any of you have known. An
internally structured life will quickly replace the life of the inmate
if you will but let it do so.

---

You may still believe in a divine design without accepting that a divine
design exists and that you are part of it. Remember our goal is to deny
the old and accept the new.

The old that you would deny is the idea of a purposeless existence, a universe
with no divine order, a life in which you are at the mercy of fate.

---

The pattern of learning

---

[Acceptance is denial of the old]

Turn your back on the prison of your former existence and do not look at
it again. Do not long for its old structure or the false security you
came to feel at times within it. Do not look for a new structure with
barred windows and doors to keep you safe. Do not seek someone to tell
you anew what to do with who you are now that you are no longer a
prisoner. Do not give keys to a new jailer and ask to be taken care of
in exchange for your newfound freedom.

## Personal Self

Each of you has had an imprisoned personal self.

The differences you saw during the time of learning, differences that
made you feel as if each being stood separate and alone, you are now
called to see no more.

Prison is an excellent example of a system you created with your faulty
perception. As with all systems, it reflects and inward state and shows
you what becomes of all of those who see not what it means to be neither
different nor the same but to be one.

Each of you has had an imprisoned personal self. Each of you who have
entered Christ-consciousness has had the cell door and the prison gate
thrown open and a new world offered.

If you do not accept this opportunity, you remain incarcerated in a
system that tells you when you will awaken, how you will spend your day
and when you will retire. You remain at the mercy of those incarcerated
with you and those that would have power over you, and you remain
subject to the laws of man.

Until you are living as who you are and doing what you love, you are in
prison. This prison is as much of your own making as the actual prison
systems that developed when shape and form was given to what you fear
and what you believe will protect you.

## Union/Unity

As you new are so too is God, for you are one if not the same. As you
are new so too is the world, for you are one if not the same. As you are
new so are your brothers and sisters, for they too, are one, if not the
same.

While not the same, you also are not different.

In unity you are whole and inseparable, one living organism now raised
above the level of the organism as you become aware of unity of form.

What is one is neither the same nor different. You will see that there
is one answer, an answer different for everyone and yet the same for
everyone. That answer is acceptance of your Self. That answer is
acceptance of the new you.

