---
ref: "D.5"
title: "True Representation"
---

Because we could remember much of creation in a non-cognitive, intuitive
way and the minor distortions that occurred between this non-cognitive
memory and how we acted on it that caused major departures from the
nature of creation.

These distortions happened as we assigned meaning or "truth" to things
truly believing in our ability to do so.

In this way we determined what the world around us was meant to
represent.

It was in much the same way that the ego came to represent you.

What we are doing now is returning the world to its true representation.
There is a huge difference between a true representation and a false one.
While the false representation of the ego self led to the world you see,
it did not change the truth but only created illusion.

The world without was created as a true representation of the world
within and as you become aware of the truth represented in all that
surrounds you the boundaries between the inner and outer world will
diminish and eventually cease to be.

The ego has represented a false self - it is possible to misrepresent.
But the new world you have entered need not be filled with
misrepresentations, for you are cause and effect.

**Note:** Saying "for you are cause and effect" is the same as the first
axiom of WOM that "your experience is the result of the choices you
make". Choices are the cause and experience is the effect.

It is through the representation of the true that the false is exposed
as nothing. The false is nothing but the false. It does not become some
"thing," for in the becoming it would need to take on the properties of
the truth.

Everywhere you look in your world the lie of false representation will
be exposed and the truth will be represented once again.

This seeing of the truth is the first step in the restoration of divine
design. True seeing facilitates the return to what is and we but proceed
from this starting point.

While you have learned to take judgment from seeing you are now called
to see what you might previously have thought of as inconsequential in
the light of truth.

Everything given represents the truth.

Remember you are not called to reinterpret but to accept revelation. You
will not arrive at the truth by thinking about what everything means.

Reinterpretation is the old way that led to so much misinterpretation
and misrepresentation.

All was given to you to remind you of who you are in the time of
learning that is now passing away. Thus all was given to you to
represent what is rather than to be what is.

Now, as you join with the truth, your representation, in the new time
that is before us, will be what is, in its representation.

This means that form will never be all that you are, but will return to
being as it was intended and will represent the truth of who you are.

This true representation, being of the truth, returns you to the reality
of the truth where you exist in oneness.

What was created to serve the time of learning, to represent what is and
aid you in your return to what is, will become what is once again. What
you can see with your body's eyes will not be all that is but will
represent all that is truly.

What was made of what was created in order to serve the ego will cease
to be, just as the ego has ceased to be. To outline and define the
differences between what was created and what was made would be to
create a tome of information, and this is not needed now.

The desire for such is a desire to think through once again the meaning
of everything and to have a tool to help you do so. This would assume
that you are still a learning being and have need of such help.

You are no longer a learning being and need not this assistance.

In this time of Christ, we are not called to recreate the "tools" of
learning but to allow all that was created to show the way back to Self
and God to be what it is in truth. This is the return of love to love.
This is acceptance of your Self.

If there is nothing to learn, if coursework is behind you and
accomplishment is complete, what then are you to do?

You are to accept the new you - acceptance that you are going beyond
simple recognition and acceptance of the Self as God created the Self -
to the living of this Self in form.

This is an acceptance that recognizes that while the Self that God
created is eternal and the self of form as ancient as the sea and
stars, the elevated Self of form is new and will create a new world.

What are you to do? You are to create in community, in dialogue, in
commitment and togetherness. You are to be the living Covenant of the
New.

What we have discussed thus far is the acceptance of form as what it is.
This is the new reality you have desired. To live as who your are in
form. To not wait for death's release but to find release while still
living in form.

Thus we begin with the true content of the form you occupy. We return
the form you occupy to its natural state. Only then can we proceed to
creation of the new.

Because Christ-consciousness is consciousness of what is, we begin with
what is, with creation as it was created rather than as you have
perceived it to be. From this starting point only can we move forward to
the future we created together.

While living the Covenant of the New is what awaits you I am attempting
to answer your confusion concerning what is. This is crucial as you
learn to accept what is and to deny what is not.

While the question of what is not has been answered as fully as is
possible, your questions and my answers in regard to what is are
somewhat confusing to you, because what is is not a constant that can be
answered.

That you want answers while I tell you to await revelation speaks to the
impatience of the human spirit, the longing that has so long gone
unfulfilled that now that you are close you cannot bear to wait another
day, another hour. You want release from your prison now, and so you
should.

What I'm revealing to you here is that what was once a prison may no
longer be a prison!

If you continue to think of your body as a prison, if you continue to
think of your environment, your mind, and time as a prison, how can it
exist in perfect harmony with the universe?

As you can see, you are now approaching another thought reversal. Fear
not that your confusion will last, for with this thought reversal will
come your final release.

You will soon wonder how it is going to be possible to live as your new
Self while still in form, while still in a form that seems inconsistent
with your being, while still in a form that exists within a form, within
a world that seems inconsistent with your being. You will wonder how to
live in time as a being no longer bound by time.

I tell you truly, that once acceptance of what is is complete, we will
go on to these questions of the new and together we will find the
answers.

Let today's dialogue serve as a final call, a most emphatic call, to
acceptance. See the importance of this acceptance to everything that is
still to come. Hesitate no longer.

No longer wait to be told more before you accept what you have already
been told. Do not wait for a grander call before you accept the call that
has already sounded in your heart. Let this be the day of your final
surrender, the day that will usher in a new day.

## Cause and Effect

The ego has represented a false self - it is possible to misrepresent.
But the new world you have entered need not be filled with
misrepresentations, for you are cause and effect.

**Note:** Saying "for you are cause and effect" is the same as the first
axiom of WOM that "your experience is the result of the choices you
make". Choices are the cause and experience is the effect.

## Illusion

Illusion: an imitation of creation

Because we could remember much of creation in a non-cognitive, intuitive
way and the minor distortions that occurred between this non-cognitive
memory and how we acted on it that caused major departures from the
nature of creation.

These distortions happend as we assigned meaning or "truth" to things
truly believing in our ability to do so.

In this way we determined what the world around us was meant to
represent.

## The Old

Remember you are not called to reinterpret but to accept revelation. You
will not arrive at the truth by thinking about what everything means.

Reinterpretation is the old way that led to so much misinterpretation
and misrepresentation.

## The New

Now, as you join with the truth, your representation, in the new time
that is before us, will be what is, in its representation.

This means that form will never be all that you are, but will return to
being as it was intended and will represent the truth of who you are.

## Time of Learning

What was made of what was created in order to serve the ego will cease
to be, just as the ego has ceased to be. To outline and define the
differences between what was created and what was made would be to
create a tome of information, and this is not needed now.

The desire for such is a desire to think through once again the meaning
of everything and to have a tool to help you do so. This would assume
that you are still a learning being and have need of such help.

You are no longer a learning being and need not this assistance.

## Time of Christ

In this time of Christ, we are not called to recreate the "tools" of
learning but to allow all that was created to show the way back to Self
and God to be what it is in truth. This is the return of love to love.
This is acceptance of your Self.

## Elevated Self of Form

If there is nothing to learn, if coursework is behind you and
accomplishment is complete, what then are you to do?

You are to accept the new you - acceptance that you are going beyond
simple recognition and acceptance of the Self as God created the Self -
to the living of this Self in form.

This is an acceptance that recognizes that while the Self that God
created is eternal and the self of form as ancient as the sea and
starts, the elevated Self of form is new and will create a new world.

What are you to do? You are to create in community, in dialogue, in
commitment and togetherness. You are to be the living Covenant of the
New.

