---
ref: "D.6"
title: "The Body and the Elevation of Form"
---

A Course of Love is a teaching text that used the method of comparison.
This method will be used less and less as the time of learning passes.

I compared the real to the unreal, the false to the true, fear to love -
in order to point out the insanity of your perception and the perfect
sanity of the truth.

As we enter this new time of elevated form, these same ideas - ideas
that many of you attached to form rather than to your perception of form
- must be rejected.

While the false representation of the body as the self was almost as
detrimental to your learning as the false representation of the ego as
the self, the body, given your choice to return to who are truly are
while still in form, continues, while the ego does not.

Your true Self is beginning to reveal itself to you in ways in which you
will become increasingly aware. As you identify more intimately with the
Self you truly are, the self of form is likely to grow more and more
foreign to you and less and less comfortable.

Thus what is required now is a new way of envisioning the body and its
service to you.

Like all that was created for the time of learning, the body was the
perfect learning device. Now your body - your form - must be seen in a
new way.

It is thus with new ideas about the body that we will begin the final
thought reversal that will allow you to live in form as who you truly
are.

**Note:** The "thought reversal" was first mentioned in the previous
chapter. Reversing the thought of the body as a prison.

The body, as all else you see among the living, is, in fact, living. It
exists as living form. And so we begin with a distinction between what
exists as living form, and what exists as inanimate or non-living form.

Everything that exists in form is of the same Source, even those things
you have made you have not made from nothing. There is not one thing
that you have made that does not exist as some variation of what was
originally created.

Even the creations you have made are only distinct from what was
originally created in your perception of what they are or what you have
determined their use to be.

There is thus truth, or what we might call the seeds of the truly real,
or the energy of creation, in everything that exists in form.

What is not real are the things that you have made to represent what is
real since you didn't understand what it was you were making things to
represent. These are the systems of justice, government, corporations,
economics and science - the systems of what you think governs you.

If you were to ask a scientist if the miracles in the Bible were
possible they would tell you of all the "laws" of science that would be
opposed to them occurring.

What the laws of science do not take into account are the laws of God.
Scientists still look for natural laws that govern what is an "if this,
then that" world.

This same kind of attitude still governs your ideas about the body and
the systems of the world in which you exist. If you are no longer living
in an "if this, then that" world, then the same laws will naturally not
apply.

You developed an "if this, then that" world because it was the easiest
way in which to learn. It was the easiest way in which to learn because
it seemed to provide proof. Yet if science teaches anything, it teaches
that what is proven can be disproved - and often is.

There are many stories in many cultures that celebrate and bear witness
to the happenings that reveal that the laws of spirit and the laws of man
coexist.

I am calling this to mind in order to begin our discussion concerning
the suspension of belief.

If you continue into the new with your old ideas about your body, the
old body will be what you carry into the new with you. So let us begin
with a suspension of belief in what you think you know about the body,
in what science would tell you about the body, in what you have
experienced as a body - a suspension of belief that comes in the same
spirit as that of the Native American who knows that the sun may rise
and may set, but also knows that it may not.

I am speaking of a spirit that is open to the discovery of something new
and "unbelievable" and even "scientifically impossible," as well as to
the creation of something new.

In this time of revelation, discovery is the new divine pattern that will
replace the "thought" systems we have spoken of. To discover is simply to
find out what you did not previously know.

Creation of the new will be predicated on the discovery of what you did
not previously know.

Revelation cannot come to those who are so "certain" of what is that
they cannot allow for the new to be revealed. Your certainty about what
is is a false certainty, a learned certainty based on the fear that
caused you to order the world according to a set of facts and rules.

You have been taught that if your body expends energy it will need
refueling provided by food or rest. These modes of behavior concerning
the body were given to teach and to represent. You have turned them into
implacable rules you call natural laws. When these natural laws have
been shown at times to not apply, you consider these instances flukes or
miracles.

You believe when a healthy person gets sick that it is unfair and when a
person with unhealthy habits gets sick that "they did it to themselves"
or they could have prevented it by abstaining from the unhealthy habits.

These attitudes are not ruled by certainty, but by a mere idea of
bettering the odds against what fate may offer.

What fate may offer puts life at the risk and whim of an external force
that has no reality except in your imagination. What is this thing
called fate?

Like all systems you believe in, it is a system too, an internal idea
given a name, externalized, and blamed for all that you do not
understand, all that cannot be made to make sense, all that seems
unfair and beyond your control.

When you remember that we have left blaming behind, you will see that
belief in fate is just as systematic and in need of being left behind as
is belief that illness can be blamed on certain habits.

What ridding your mind of ideas of placing blame does, is take it one
step away from the thinking of the "if this, then that" thought system
we are leaving behind.

As a non-learning being you are now called to accept that you no longer
need this type of learning device and to realize that it will no longer
serve you.

The pattern of learning has been replaced by the pattern of acceptance.
The body is called upon to accept the indwelling of Christ. You have
replaced the personal self, the self of learning, with the true Self.

You have accepted your true identity. How could the body now be the same
as it once was?

In the time of learning the body represented a learning being. The ego,
however, narrowed your ideas of what the body was here to learn to ideas
of survival. You thus learned to survive rather than to live.

The body is now the embodiment of the true Self, the embodiment of love,
the embodiment of divinity. The very nature of its existence has
changed.

Now that your Self has joined the elevated Self of form, you exist
together both in time and outside of time. Remember, the elevated Self
of form will never be all that you are. This means that the elevated
Self of form is now able to join with the Self in the unity of shared
consciousness.

You are whole once again and your form will merely represent one aspect
of your wholeness in the field of time.

The true Self cannot cease to experience its natural state, the state of
Christ-consciousness, sharing in unity, the All of Everything. The self
of form and the state of unity are both in existence right now.

In the state of unity, your true Self is fully aware of the elevated
Self of form and is fully participating in its experiences and feelings.

The elevated Self of form, however, being a form that still exists in
time, must realize the consciousness of the true Self in time. What this
means is that the elevated Self of form may still need "time" to come to
know the changes that only occur in "time" although they are already
accomplished in unity.

This is why we have spoken of miracles and of the collapse of time the
miracle is capable of providing. We have redefined the miracle as the
art of thought, or the continual act of prayer that sustains the unity
of Christ-consciousness.

Time is needed now only for the transformation of the self from a
learning being to a being that can accept the shared consciousness of
unity and begin to discover what this means.

## Miracle

This is why we have spoken of miracles and of the collapse of time the
miracle is capable of providing. We have redefined the miracle as the
art of thought, or the continual act of prayer that sustains the unity
of Christ-consciousness.

## Learning

A Course of Love is a teaching text that used the method of comparison.
This method will be used less and less as the time of learning passes.

I compared the real to the unreal, the false to the true, fear to love -
in order to point out the insanity of your perception and the perfect
sanity of the truth.

As we enter this new time of elevated form, these same ideas - ideas
that many of you attached to form rather than to your perception of form
- must be rejected.

## The Old

When you remember that we have left blaming behind, you will see that
belief in fate is just as systematic and in need of being left behind as
is belief that illness can be blamed on certain habits.

What ridding your mind of ideas of placing blame does, is take it one
step away from the thinking of the "if this, then that" thought system
we are leaving behind.

## Discovery

If you continue into the new with your old ideas about your body, the
old body will be what you carry into the new with you. So let us begin
with a suspension of belief in what you think you know about the body,
in what science would tell you about the body, in what you have
experienced as a body - a suspension of belief that comes in the same
spirit as that of the Native American who knows that the sun may rise
and may set, but also knows that it may not.

I am speaking of a spirit that is open to the discovery of something new
and "unbelievable" and even "scientifically impossible," as well as to
the creation of something new.

In this time of revelation, discovery is the new divine pattern that
will replace the "thought" systems we have spoken of (justice, govt,
etc). To discover is simply to find out what you did not previously
know.

## The New

Creation of the new will be predicated on the discovery of what you did
not previously know.

## Revelation

Revelation cannot come to those who are so "certain" of what is that
they cannot allow for the new to be revealed. Your certainty about what
is is a false certainty, a learned certainty based on the fear that
caused you to order the world according to a set of facts and rules.

## Fate

You believe when a healthy person gets sick that it is unfair and when a
person with unhealthy habits gets sick that "they did it to themselves"
or they could have prevented it by abstaining from the unhealthy habits.

These attitudes are not ruled by certainty, but by a mere idea of
bettering the odds against what fate may offer.

What fate may offer puts life at the risk and whim of an external force
that has no reality except in your imagination. What is this thing
called fate?

Like all systems you believe in, it is a system too, an internal idea
given a name, externalized, and blamed for all that you do not
understand, all that cannot be made to make sense, all that seems
unfair and beyond your control.

## Blame

When you remember that we have left blaming behind, you will see that
belief in fate is just as systematic and in need of being left behind as
is belief that illness can be blamed on certain habits.

What ridding your mind of ideas of placing blame does, is take it one
step away from the thinking of the "if this, then that" thought system
we are leaving behind.

**Note:** "If this, then that" is the same as blame.


