---
ref: "D.7"
title: "Time and the Experience of Transformation"
---

You cannot know the experience of unity without entering into it. To
enter into the experience of unity is difficult to imagine and something
for which you have little language.

You were told in the Course the what you learn in unity is shared. This
language was used because you were still, at that time, a learning
being.

Now we will adjust our language to represent the new and restate what
was said earlier as "What you discover in unity is shared." Learning
does not occur in unity, but discovery is an ongoing aspect of creation
and thus of the state of union in which you truly abide.

Learning occurs in separation and unity is first experienced
individually before it can be shared at another level. Levels are a
function of time.

Integration of levels collapse time, this integration of levels is the
integration of form and unity.

When Christ-consciousness is sustained, time will collapse and the sun
may not need to rise or set to separate day into night. Resting and
waking will be part of the same continuum of being.

Experience is needed in time to aid your total acceptance of what you
have learned. In order to experience the new you must answer the call to
let revelation and discovery, rather than learning, be what you gain
from experience.

Transformation is needed because what was created cannot be uncreated.
The miracle makes you fully aware of the embrace and the consciousness
of unity and places you outside of time. In this state, no duality
exists. Doing and being are one.

Action is the bridge between form and the formless because action is the
expression of the self in form.

Right action comes from the unity in which doing and being are one, or
in other words from the state in which there is no division between who
you are and what you do. Right action comes from the state of wholeness.

Being whole is being all you are. Being all you are is what the elevated
Self of form represents.

You are now called to discover how to exist in form without being
defined as timebound particularity, a man or woman existing in a
particular time in history.

You can accept the body now as what it is in all its manifestations
while not seeing it as "bound" by the particularity of time and space.
It may still exist in a particular time and place, but this is simply
the nature of one aspect of what you are.

The nature of form is that it exists as matter, it occupies space and is
perceptible to the senses. You have previously seen this one aspect of
form as separating it from mind, heart, and spirit - those aspects that
are not perceptible to the senses. But let me repeat that all that lives
is from the same Source, and there is nothing more alive than mind and
heart combined in the spirit of wholeheartedness.

Matter is another word for content. The content of all living things is
the energy of the spirit of wholeheartedness. The content of all things
is, in other words, whole.

By seeing only aspects of wholeness you have not seen content nor matter
truly. You have not been aware of all that you are. You are thus now
called to discover and to become aware of all that you are.

The body, rather than aiding you in learning as it once did, will aid you
now in this discovery.

Realize this is a call to love all of yourself. You who once could love
spirit or mind, mind or body - because of the dualistic nature
associated with them - now can love all of your Self, all of God, all of
creation. You can respond to love with love.

But we start with the body, returning love to it now. It is what it is
and nothing that it is, is deserving of anything other than love.

This call to love all of your Self is a call to unconditional,
nonjudgmental love. It is a call to nonjudgmental love. This
nonjudgmental love is the condition upon which your discovery of all you
do not yet know awaits.

Discovery is not the same as remembrance. Remembrance was necessary for
your return to your true identity, the Self as it was created.
Remembrance was about what you knew but had forgotten. Memory has
returned you to your Self.

Discovery will allow the new you to come into being by revealing what
you do not yet know about how to live as the elevated Self of form.

This discovery can only take place in the reality of love.

Being in love is a definition of what you now are as you accept the
unconditional, nonjudgmental love of all.

Revelation is of God. Observation, vision, and desire are steps leading
you beyond what the individual, separated self sees, to the revelation
of what is.

Observation takes place in time and envisioning too but it is less time
bound because it is not about what your body's eyes see, and will
increasingly join with what you observe until your vision is released
from old patterns and guides you more truly.

Desire is an acknowledgement of the uniqueness of each Self, and is a
demonstration of means and end being the same. Desire keeps you focused
on your own path and leaves you nonjudgmental of the paths of others.
Like observation and vision it is related to the self of form. It is a
step toward full acceptance and awareness of who you are not and what
this means as you become the elevated Self of form.

Observation, vision, and desire, steps that lead to revelation, are not
aspects of creation because they are related to particular forms as they
exist in time.

Time is not an aspect of eternity or of unity. Time is thus what has
separated the self that exists in form from the Self that exists in
union or the state of Christ-consciousness.

By becoming one body, one Christ, you have accepted existence as a
non-particular being in a state outside of time - you have accepted
existence as a new Self, the Self of elevated form.

Discovery is not bound by time as it is an ongoing aspect of creation.

As you were told in "A Treatise on the New", the future is yet to be
created. This is not a time-bound statement, it is merely one way of
stating that creation is ongoing rather than static. While creation is
and is as it was created, it was created to be eternally expanding and
expressing in new ways.

Through the consciousness of unity you are now linked with the entire
field of creation, rather than only with the time-bound field of
creation of form.

As your awareness grows, you will begin to expand and express in new
ways that include the form of your body without being limited to
creation of, and in, form.

The body has thus joined creation in a non-time-bound way.

Evolution is the time-bound way in which the body has participated in
creation. Time-bound evolution is the way of the creature, the natural
response of the living organism to the stimulus of matter upon matter,
and of the creature's perception of its own experience in time.

This time-bound evolution is really adaptation. It occurs in reaction to
what is perceived as necessary for survival.

Time-bound evolution is still going on, and as the planet becomes
crowded, as progress leaves so many unfulfilled, as environmental
concerns mount, even the perceived survival needs are leading you toward
new answers of what survival may mean.

In this time of Christ, everyone knows that the end of the old way is
near and that the new is coming. They are thus moving toward
anticipation rather than adaptation, and evolution moves with them.

But evolution in time is part of the old that needs to be left behind.
It is a provision of the time of learning that allows the learning being
to learn at his or her own pace and to pass this learning on in time.

Everyone knows that this has not worked to improve the fate of man.
Everyone secretly fears that evolution will not keep pace with the
changing world and that man's reign over his environment will come to an
abrupt and painful end. Some even fear an evolutionary setback, and see
any threat against civilization as they know it as a return to barbaric
times.

These scenarios of fear we leave behind as we abandon ideas of evolution
in time and proceed to an awareness of how the elevated Self of form can
replace the laws of evolution in time with the laws of transformation
outside of time.

In order to facilitate your understanding, I call you now to imagine
your body as a dot in the center of a circle as representing all that
you are.

The dot of your body is all that is bound by time.

What transformation outside of time asks you to do is to see the body as
but this one, small, aspect of what you are.

In observing both yourself and others, you have learned to view your
body in the field of time. This will be helpful now as you begin to
imagine the "more" that you are, the "more" that exits beyond the body's
boundary and beyond the boundary of time and particularity.

This circle in which you have placed your body is not a circle of time
and space. It is not a circle that can be drawn around where you exist
so as to define, perhaps, a mile of space and say this this is all you
are.

No, the circle that exists around you is the circle of shared
consciousness, the circle of unity.

In truth, this circle is everything, the All of All, the universe, God.
You will not always be aware of this circle of the Self as the All of
Everything, and it will, in fact, be helpful as we begin, to imagine on
a smaller scale.

Begin by imagining first your actual, physical, home, then your
neighborhood, community, city, state, country. You have an address,
perhaps a yard, or farm, a public spot that has become a favorite park
or lake or beach that you consider partially yours.

You have a route to and from work or other places that you go, where you
see familiar landmarks, structures, faces. You visit homes of friends
and relatives, your church, perhaps a school or library, restaurants or
places of civic duty or social engagements.

You may expand this small territory you call your own with business
travel or vacations, and have more than one locale that feels like home.

What I ask you to do is to think of these areas as the territory of your
body and to remember that while this is your territory, it is a shared
territory and a territory within the territory of planet Earth.

Thus we begin once again with parameters, with a territory of shared
consciousness, rather than with the consciousness of the All of
Everything.

This territory we will call the territory of your conscious awareness.

This territory of conscious awareness is shared with the larger
consciousness of unity, just as the territory of your body is shared
with those who live and work nearby.

This territory of conscious awareness exists within the larger
consciousness of unity, just as the territory of your body exists within
the larger territory of the planet Earth.

We begin here, with the territory of your conscious awareness, knowing
that discovery and revelation will expand this territory, and realizing
that no matter how small this cosmic territory may be, it will still at
times give way to awareness of the All of Everything.

## Territory of Conscious Awareness

Thus we begin once again with parameters, with a territory of shared
consciousness, rather than with the consciousness of the All of
Everything.

This territory we will call the territory of your conscious awareness.

This territory of conscious awareness is shared with the larger
consciousness of unity, just as the territory of your body is shared
with those who live and work nearby.

This territory of conscious awareness exists within the larger
consciousness of unity, just as the territory of your body exists within
the larger territory of the planet Earth.

We begin here, with the territory of your conscious awareness, knowing
that discovery and revelation will expand this territory, and realizing
that no matter how small this cosmic territory may be, it will still at
times give way to awareness of the All of Everything.

## Evolution

Evolution is the time-bound way in which the body has participated in
creation. Time-bound evolution is the way of the creature, the natural
response of the living organism to the stimulus of matter upon matter,
and of the creature's perception of its own experience in time.

This time-bound evolution is really adaptation. It occurs in reaction to
what is perceived as necessary for survival.

Time-bound evolution is still going on, and as the planet becomes
crowded, as progress leaves so many unfulfilled, as environmental
concerns mount, even the perceived survival needs are leading you toward
new answers of what survival may mean.

In this time of Christ, everyone knows that the end of the old way is
near and that the new is coming. They are thus moving toward
anticipation rather than adaptation, and evolution moves with them.

But evolution in time is part of the old that needs to be left behind.
It is a provision of the time of learning that allows the learning being
to learn at his or her own pace and to pass this learning on in time.

Everyone knows that this has not worked to improve the fate of man.
Everyone secretly fears that evolution will not keep pace with the
changing world and that man's reign over his environment will come to an
abrupt and painful end. Some even fear an evolutionary setback, and see
any threat against civilization as they know it as a return to barbaric
times.

## Creation

As you were told in "A Treatise on the New", the future is yet to be
created. This is not a time-bound statement, it is merely one way of
stating the creation is ongoing rather that static. While creation is
and is as it was created, it was created to be eternally expanding and
expressing in new ways.

## Time

Time is not an aspect of eternity or of unity. Time is thus what has
separated the self that exists in form from the Self that exists in
union or the state of Christ-consciousness.

## Desire

Desire is an acknowledgement of the uniqueness of each Self, and is a
demonstration of means and end being the same. Desire keeps you focused
on your own path and leaves you nonjudgmental of the paths of others.
Like observation and vision it is related to the self of form. It is a
step toward full acceptance and awareness of who you are not and what
this means as you become the elevated Self of form.

## Content

Matter is another word for content. The content of all living things is
the energy of the spirit of wholeheartedness. The content of all things
is, in other words, whole.

## Discovery

You are now called to discover how to exist in form without being
defined as timebound particularity, a man or woman existing in a
particular time in history.

By seeing only aspects of wholeness you have not seen content nor matter
truly. You have not been aware of all that you are. You are thus now
called to discover and to become aware of all that you are.

---

This call to love all of your Self is a call to unconditional,
nonjudgmental love. It is a call to nonjudgmental love. This
nonjudgmental love is the condition upon which your discovery of all you
do not yet know awaits.

---

Discovery is not the same as remembrance. Remembrance was necessary for
your return to your true identity, the Self as it was created.
Remembrance was about what you knew but had forgotten. Memory has
returned you to your Self.

Discovery will allow the new you to come into being by revealing what
you do not yet know about how to live as the elevated Self of form.

This discovery can only take place in the reality of love.

---

Discovery is not bound by time as it is an ongoing aspect of creation.

## Body/form

You are now called to discover how to exist in form without being
defined as timebound particularity, a man or woman existing in a
particular time in history.

You can accept the body now as what it is in all its manifestations
while not seeing it as "bound" by the particularity of time and space.
It may still exist in a particular time and place, but this is simply
the nature of one aspect of what you are.

The nature of form is that it exists as matter, it occupies space and is
perceptible to the senses. You have previously seen this one aspect of
form as separating it from mind, heart, and spirit - those aspects that
are not perceptible to the senses. But let me repeat that all that lives
is from the same Source, and there is nothing more alive than mind and
heart combined in the spirit of wholeheartedness.

## Elevated Self of Form

Action is the bridge between form and the formless because action is the
expression of the self in form.

Right action comes from the unity in which doing and being are one, or
in other words from the state in which there is no division between who
you are and what you do. Right action comes from the state of wholeness.

Being whole is being all you are. Being all you are is what the elevated
Self of form represents.

---

These scenarios of fear we leave behind as we abandon ideas of evolution
in time and proceed to an awareness of how the elevated Self of form can
replace the laws of evolution in time with the laws of transformation
outside of time.

## Miracle

Transformation is needed because what was created cannot be uncreated.
The miracle makes you fully aware of the embrace and the consciousness
of unity and places you outside of time. In this state, no duality
exists. Doing and being are one.

## The New

Experience is needed in time to aid your total acceptance of what you
have learned. In order to experience the new you must answer the call to
let revelation and discovery, rather than learning, be what you gain
from experience.

## The Old

But evolution in time is part of the old that needs to be left behind.
It is a provision of the time of learning that allows the learning being
to learn at his or her own pace and to pass this learning on in time.

---

Everyone secretly fears that evolution will not keep pace with the
changing world and that man's reign over his environment will come to an
abrupt and painful end. Some even fear an evolutionary setback, and see
any threat against civilization as they know it as a return to barbaric
times.

## Learning

Learning occurs in separation.

Experiences of form take place in time because experience, too, was
designed for learning.


## Christ-consciousness

Learning occurs in separation and unity is first experienced
individually before it can be shared at another level. Levels are a
function of time.

Integration of levels collapse time, this integration of levels is the
integration of form and unity.

When Christ-consciousness is sustained, time will collapse and the sun
may not need to rise or set to separate day into night. Resting and
waking will be part of the same continuum of being.

[Sustaining Christ-consciousness *is* the integration of form and
unity.]

## Unity

Now we will adjust our language to represent the new and restate what
was said earlier as "What you discover in unity is shared." Learning
does not occur in unity, but discovery is an ongoing aspect of creation
and thus of the state of union in which you truly abide.

