---
ref: "D.8"
title: "The Territory of Conscious Awareness"
---

Continuing to imagine your body as the dot within the circle, I ask you
to imagine now stepping outside the area of the dot into the area of the
wider circle.

In this area of the wider circle there is no time, no space, no
particularity. It is an area of unlimited freedom.

Yet we begin with parameters that make this area as imaginable to you as
possible because here is where all that you can imagine can become your
new reality.

Here, no learning is needed. It seems impossible, too "good" to be true.
You are too used to thinking of yourself as a learning being to truly
experience the freedom of not being bound by this constraint.

In all your life, you can think of no ability you have not achieved
through learning. Yet most of you have "discovered" something that comes
easily to you, a natural talent or ability that made learning faster or
possible in areas where others without the ability could not.

You may have been discouraged by not being able to be the "best" despite
your natural talent or ability. Others who have achieved the highest
possible acclaim for their talents find this acclaim unfulfilling once
it is achieved.

We leave this ideas behind as we concentrate instead on the very simple
idea of each of you containing a natural ability or talent that existed
in some form prior to the time of learning.

We concentrate on this idea merely as an idea and not in terms of the
specific ability it may represent. We concentrate on this idea as the
first parameter of the territory of your conscious awareness as you let
awareness grow in you that you have experienced something that existed
prior to the time of learning. And it was quite wonderful.

You might think of this ability as coming from the content of the wider
circle of who you are to infiltrate the dot of the body, or as the body
having taken a step outside of the dot of self to infiltrate the wider
circle of the Self.

When you have realized that you are "more" than your body, your natural
talent or ability has been one of the primary factors leading to this
realization because a part of you has always known this ability was a
"given." That you are gifted - given to - and able to receive and have
known such talents or abilities are not of the body.

To accept this is to accept that you have access to a "given" Self,
something neither earned nor worked hard to attain. To imagine this
as an idea is to imagine this "given" Self as the Self that exists
beyond the boundary we have described as the dot of the body.

This idea will aid in your understanding of discovery. As your natural
abilities or talents were discovered you realized that although you had
not previously known that the talent or ability existed, it was there
awaiting your discovery.

You may also have seen that in the expression of this talent or ability
new discoveries awaited you and that you greeted them with surprise and
delight.

These surprises of discovery have and will cause you to laugh and be
joyous. There was and never will be any need to figure them out - for
surprises cannot be figured out! Surprises are meant to be joyous gifts
being constantly revealed. Gifts that need only be received and
responded to. Not learned.

While discovery of the new will include much that goes beyond what you
think of as your natural talents or abilities, the place or Source of
your natural talents or abilities is a place from which to start
building your awareness of what is available or given.

The idea that you have an already existing awareness of the Source of
unity beyond the body will increase your comfort level and will help
establish it as the first parameter in the territory of your conscious
awareness.

Between the Course and the Treatises all of what you needed to learn was
put forth. We are now discussing what was taught from the realm of
wholeheartedness.

You chose to join mind and heart and it was done. But you do not yet
know how to rid yourself of former patterns. Your mind, while it no
longer wants to cling to known patterns, is confronted with them
constantly. Thus your heart still seems to battle with the supremacy of
the mind.

What we are attempting to do is to open the mind to the wisdom of the
heart with these dialogues. As the mind opens and accepts the new, the
art of thought will become your new means of thinking.

What has been learned will become an ability to think wholeheartedly, or
with mind and heart in union, and then that ability will transcend
ability and wholehearted will become what you are, and wholeheartedness
your sole means of expression.

The self and the expression of self that comes from any place other than
wholeheartedness is not the true Self or the true expression of the Self
but the self-expression that arises from separation.

Self-expression that arises from separation is still valuable, as it is
a sign of yearning toward the true Self and the true expression of the
Self. Thus where you have desired to express yourself in the past is
very likely linked to the natural ability or talent you did not have to
learn, to that which was given and available just a step beyond where
the separated self could reach.

Expand your reach! Step outside of the dot of the separated self and
into the circle of unity where all you desire is already accomplished in
the fullness and wholeness of the undivided Self.

The divided self is the small self of separation that is constantly
yearning for union with that from which it is divided. Enter the place
of no division, the place of shared consciousness, the place of
wholeness.

The natural ability that you recognize as a given and unlearned aspect
of your Self is the doorway. Step through that doorway. Take the first
step outside of the known reality of your conscious awareness, the
learned reality of your separate consciousness, and into the realm of
shared consciousness.

When you choose to take this step it is taken. What you will become
aware of on the other side of that door will require a new way of
seeing, and new kind of awareness.

## Discovery

This idea will aid in your understanding of discovery. As your natural
abilities or talents were discovered you realized that although you had
not previously known that the talent of ability existed, it was there
awaiting your discovery.

You may also have seen that in the expression of this talent or ability
new discoveries awaited you and that you greeted them with surprise and
delight.

These surprises of discovery have and will cause you to laugh and be
joyous. There was and never will be any need to figure them out - for
surprises cannot be figured out! Surprises are meant to be joyous gifts
being constantly revealed. Gifts that need only be received and
responded to. Not learned.


## Self

When you have realized that you are "more" than your body, your natural
talent or ability has been one of the primary factors leading to this
realization because a part of you has always known this ability was a
"given." That you are gifted - given to - and able to receive and have
known such talents or abilities are not of the body.

To accept this is to accept that you have access to a "given" Self,
something neither earned nor worked hard to attain. To imagine this
as an idea is to imagine this "given" Self as the Self that exists
beyond the boundary we have described as the dot of the body.

## Territory of Conscious Awareness

We concentrate on this idea merely as an idea and not in terms of the
specific ability it may represent. We concentrate on this idea as the
first parameter of the territory of your conscious awareness as you let
awareness grow in you that you have experienced something that existed
prior to the time of learning. And it was quite wonderful.

## The Old

In all your life, you can think of no ability you have not achieved
through learning. Yet most of you have "discovered" something that comes
easily to you, a natural talent or ability that made learning faster or
possible in areas where others without the ability could not.

You may have been discouraged by not being able to be the "best" despite
your natural talent or ability. Others who have achieved the highest
possible acclaim for their talents find this acclaim unfulfilling once
it is achieved.

We leave this ideas behind as we concentrate instead on the very simple
idea of each of you containing a natural ability or talent that existed
prior to the time of learning.

