---
ref: "D.9"
title: "Awareness that Does Not Come from Thought"
---

The door that is being opened to you here is the door of awareness of
what is, a door that swings open and closed on the hinges of your
thoughts.

Thoughts are a greater boundary than the dot of your body and a greater
means of imprisonment than bars and walls. They are why you do not see
what is and are the reason that you continue to desire to be provided
with set answers.

What you think is what imprisons you.

You continue to think that your desire to know who you are calls you to
think about who you are and in that thinking to come up with a
definition of who you are, a truth of who you are, a certainty about who
you are.

This desire has always been with you and you have thought that once
defined and acted upon, you would be fulfilled and be who your truly
are, end your confusion and give you peace to usher in the new.

But this desire has been with you in one way or another all of your life
without reaching the place of fulfillment you have sought.

Even now, when you have learned all that you are in need of learning,
the pattern, even of your wholeheartedness, remains one of thought. This
pattern is what the new patterns of acceptance and discovery that we are
beginning to lay out here are going to replace.

Thought is a practice and a pattern of the separated and thus learning
self.

Learning always has as its goal leading the learner beyond learning.
Now, as we embrace the new together, it must be realized again and yet
again, that the new cannot be learned. It must be realized that you
cannot come to know the new, or to create the new, through the means of
old, including the means of thought.

We thus return to discovery and continue to expand the territory of your
conscious awareness. We do this by discussing now the nature of ideas as
opposed to the nature of thoughts.

Like the natural abilities you discovered existed within you prior to
the time of learning, ideas are also discoveries that you make,
discoveries tat exist apart from learning. Ideas "come to you." They are
given and received. They are surprising and pleasing in nature.

Heredity can be cited as a cause for talent, but what is heredity but
that which already exists within you? So too is it with an idea. An idea
already exists within you, but is awaiting its birth through you.

This is how you must now come to see your form; it is that through which
what already exists, what is already accomplished, comes or passes
through by means of the expression of your form and the interaction of
your form with all you are in relationship with.

If we return to the image of the body as the dot in the wider circle and
accept that your discovery of your natural talent or ability and your
discovery of new ideas are discoveries of something that already existed
beyond the dot of the body; and if you accept that these ideas that
already exist were able to pass through you in order to gain expression
in form; then your are beginning to see, on a small scale, the action
that, on a large scale, will become the new way.

## Body

This is how you must now come to see your form; it is that through which
what already exists, what is already accomplished, comes or passes
through by means of the expression of your form and the interaction of
your form with all you are in relationship with.

If we return to the image of the body as the dot in the wider circle and
accept that your discovery of your natural talent or ability and your
discovery of new ideas are discoveries of something that already existed
beyond the dot of the body; and if you accept that these ideas that
already exist were able to pass through you in order to gain expression
in form; then your are beginning to see, on a small scale, the action
that, on a large scale, will become the new way.

## Idea

Like the natural abilities you discovered existed within you prior to
the time of learning, ideas are also discoveries that you make,
discoveries tat exist apart from learning. Ideas "come to you." They are
given and received. They are surprising and pleasing in nature.

Heredity can be cited as a cause for talent, but what is heredity but
that which already exists within you? So too is it with an idea. An idea
already exists within you, but is awaiting its birth through you.

## Thought

Thoughts are a greater boundary than the dot of your body and a greater
means of imprisonment than bars and walls. They are why you do not see
what is and are the reason that you continue to desire to be provided
with set answers.

What you think is what imprisons you.

---

Thought is a practice and a pattern of the separated and thus learning
self.

## The Old

Even now, when you have learned all that you are in need of learning,
the pattern, even of your wholeheartedness, remains one of thought. This
pattern is what the new patterns of acceptance and discovery that we are
beginning to lay out here are going to replace.

## Learning

Learning always has as its goal leading the learner beyond learning.

## The New

Learning always has as its goal leading the learner beyond learning.
Now, as we embrace the new together, it must be realized again and yet
again, that the new cannot be learned. It must be realized that you
cannot come to know the new, or to create the new, through the means of
old, including the means of thought.

