
# You

That which knows, that which comprehends immediately, is the Mind
of Christ, that recognizes Itself in each and every one. That Mind
of Christ dwells within you in its fullness now!

# Christ

Remember that resistance is the ego; embracing is of Christ. And
the one that allows all things has already transcended all things.

## Description

And Christ is the firstborn of the Father, that is, it is That
which is begotten, and not made. Christ is God’s creation. Christ
is the Holy Child of God. Christ is as a sunbeam to the sun,
radiating forever from the Holy Mind of what I have called Abba.

Christ is God’s only creation. Christ is that medium through which
the unfathomable, mysterious, beyond-comprehension Source that I
have called Abba, extends Itself into the creation of temporary
forms to reflect, throughout the Universe, that which the Universe
Itself is made of — where it comes from, what it is enveloped
within, and that to which it eternally returns.

Christ knows the Truth that sets all things free. Christ Mind is
like an empty and open channel and nothing can obscure its purity
and perfect silence.

Christ is the presence of Love, Christ owns each moment of
experience as wholly self-created, for no other reason than that
you have chosen it from the perfect and infinite freedom of your
Unlimited Beingness, Christ looks upon all things without
judgment, through the eyes of forgiveness, when you decide to
embody only the reality of Love, no matter what anybody else is
doing, that is when Life begins! (Christ is Life)

The Heart is that which feels all things, embraces all things,
trusts all things, allows all things. The Heart is that in which
the soul rests eternally. The Heart is that which is beyond space
and time and is that spark of Light in the Mind of God, which is
called Christ.

Only Christ can express what is absolutely true.

Only Christ can so inform the cellular structure of the body that
even the simplest of gestures extends Love unto another who
beholds it. Only Christ knows how to breathe the breath that
releases all trauma, all hurt. Only Christ understands the power
of true forgiveness, which is always, by the way, forgiveness of
one’s self, since no one has wronged you at any time. Only Christ
can bring a smile to the lips of a body, such that when another
looks upon you and sees that smile, their heart is filled. Only
Christ can walk in this world, yet not be of the world. And only
Christ can transcend every limited and fearful creation into the
beautiful flower that blossoms and gives its sweet fragrance to
all of Creation.

Description of Christ. It just means you finally think only with
your right-mindedness. You think as God thinks, and God thinks
lovingly. God thinks infinitely, timelessly, patiently, certainly,
and above all, God thinks play-fully — full of play!

Nothing limits you at all, or at any time. The power of the
freedom of choice is the essence of Christ. In reality, nothing is
impossible to you and nothing unavailable to you.

## The Experience of Christ (Elevated Self of Form)

Can you imagine walking upon this Earth, this very planet upon
which you find yourselves, and no matter where you are, feeling as
though every wisp of cloud and every blade of grass and all good
things under Heaven and Earth were already residing with you,
within this sphere of your countenance? Can you imagine walking
upon this Earth and sensing that the Light from the farthest of
stars that shines during the night is already within you, that the
whole of Creation was held in the palms of your hands?

For Christ does not store perceptions and knowledge.  Christ,
eternally in love with all that God is, merely opens, receives,
and gives, knowing that that which is given comes not of him or
herself, but rather through him or herself, from Infinite Mystery
that I have called Abba, or Father.

And you will literally know and feel within the core of your being
the Truth of both of those. And there will no longer be opposition
between them. You will no longer look at the personality and see a
great schism between it and the nature of Christ Mind, for the two
will have become merged as one. You will look at the most ordinary
events that you experience with your body and see no
differentiation whatsoever between that and the Kingdom of Heaven.
It simply is arising, and is literally held in, pervaded by, and
suffused by, the Reality that is true always.

The perfect innocence of Christ knows there isn’t anything else to
do but love — to love without limits, to love without fear, to
love by extending perfect freedom to all of Creation to be and do
what it wants to be and do. Nothing can betray you, nothing can
hurt you, nothing can bring anything to you or take anything away.
You have the infinite and perfect freedom to love!

