# Creation

## Relationships

Communication is creation. These two are one and the same.

[What you experience *is* your creation.]

For your thoughts literally are imbued with
the power of creation. They do not create neutrally.

[Joy is the result of being as you are created to be, a creator]

[Experience is the extension of Creation]

## Creation

And creation, itself, that flows from the Mind of God is an ongoingness —
forever!

Creation is forever new.

The world in which you live has but one purpose. It is the same
purpose that all dimensions of Creation have: to be the extension of the
Father’s Love. For that is what Creation is. And then, to extend that Love from
that world, from that dimension.

in the very desire to be creative, to extend creativity ceaselessly (and that
is what Creation is)

Creation is innocent. Creation is utterly powerless.

Creation is a collaboration.

Now, there is no difference because Creation holds only one purpose, one goal,
one value: healing–the healing that allows God’s Holy Child, Christ, to arise
from a useless dream and be restored to her rightful place at the right hand of
God. That is not a spatial term. It simply means to think rightly, to be
restored to sanity, so that Creation can flow forth ever more perfectly, ever
more joyously, adding to the Kingdom by extending the increasingly good, the
increasingly holy, the increasingly beautiful.

We come forth, yet again, to join with you because the sole purpose of Creation
is to extend the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

Creation, then, is the process in which the creator extends herself/himself
from the world of the formless into the world of form.

The very purpose of all created forms of consciousness is to
express praise of the Creator.

You will be creating new adventures eternally. For there is no moment that
Creation ends. And mind, or soul, is the vortex, the vehicle through which
Creation extends Itself from the field of infinite possibility into the
realization of manifold particularities.

Creation is merely a
harmless game, done for the simple enjoyment of creating.

## God as Creator

He looked upon all of Creation, which literally means
not just this planet but all of an infinite number of creations of dimension
upon dimension upon dimension, and all little webs of relationships called
souls that He brought into existence in one split second.

---

That Heart is the depth and the essence of the Creator’s only creation. And
that creation is Pure Mind, Pure Being, Pure Intelligence, the fulfillment of
all wisdom, the depth of all compassion, the certainty of every purpose under
Heaven

Remain with me now. Here, there are no mates, no careers, no loss, no gain, no
pain, no suffering. Here alone, the Truth remains a shimmering within you. Here
is where I am.

Rest into the Heart of all Creation, the still and silent place of Perfect
Peace. What is it that we share, if not awareness itself? For here there is no
difference between you and myself. You are a Shimmering Field of Awareness. And
that same Shimmering Field comprises the essence of All that I am.

And within this Awareness lies the answer to every question you might choose to
ask. Within this Shimmering Awareness is the reassurance that the end of the
journey is certain. Within this Shimmering Awareness do you abide at One with
all minds and every aspect of Creation. Join with me here for this is the
secret of communion; to relinquish the perception of the world in favor of the
acknowledgment of Reality.

---

Beloved friends, is it not time to assume complete responsibility for the grand
freedom that has been imparted to you by Abba — Father, Creator, Source of your
being?

---

The very first level of Creation is when That which we call God first began the
indescribable, the unexplainable mystery of birthing Himself forth, out of the
eternal matrix of his Being. That first level of Creation was Pure Spirit–a
subtle, subtle movement in which a gentle Sunbeam begins to emerge from the
Sun, or a ray of Light soundlessly begins to emanate from Light Itself. In Pure
Spirit, you are unbounded; you are without form. But you are not without
Consciousness. You’re not without Self-awareness. In Spirit, there is only
Self–not self and other, not self apart from form, but simply Self … radiant,
shimmering, unbounded, alone, yet not lonely. Rather, filled with Self, filled
with God, filled with Love.

This first level of Creation never changes. It is as God, Itself.

For the Sunbeam is as the Sun; the ray of Light as the Light. A momentum,
though, has begun–a momentum extending from the Pure Potentiality of All That
God Is. For Love seeks only to extend Itself. Extension is an activity, it is a
movement. And for there to be extension, there must necessarily have then been
created what you call space. But even at this level of Creation, the space of
which we speak is not quite what you would perceive in your mind, as you think
of that which contains the planets whirling around your sun.

Rather, it was more like a, let us say, a mathematical concept. It was the idea
of space, in which extension could occur. There were not yet planets and suns.
There was not yet a single atom or molecule of what you call matter. There was
Pure Thought, Pure Love, Pure Being, beginning to entertain the idea of pure
space, pure extension–unlimited, unbounded, forever. There was Pure Spirit.
That is what You Are, now and forever. Spirit does not change.

---

And why? All for the joy of extending Creation, that That One might be aware of
Itself in an endless variety of form. And this is where it begins–the delight
of Creation. That is what You Are! In Pure Soul there is still only Pure
Potentiality. There has not yet been what you would know as experience. There
is, however, the first subtle awareness of the One Self being aware of Itself.

---

In creation, Love merely extends Itself with innocence.

---

And God’s Creation occurs nowhere. That is, It has no location.

God sees Himself, appearing as you, doing exactly what you are doing in each
and every moment.  There can only be God. You are God’s Dream. You are God’s
Creation. You are God’s Child, in the sense that you are God shaping Itself
into a temporary expression of Itself. And for what purpose? To simply extend
Creation. You are That One! All Power under Heaven and Earth resides within
you! When you bend to pick up a glass, God is embracing God! And if God were
not choosing that, in that moment, you would cease to be. Even the body would
vanish from view.

---

And no matter how deeply you have stepped into this journey, no matter how many
transfigurative experiences you have had, as the false self melts away, and the
Reality of Abba is birthed in the Mind made by God, there is always more. There
is always more. For the Father never ceases in extending Himself into the forms
of His Creation never.

---

Beloved friends, you were created to create. You were created out of an
overflow of Joy and Love. Therefore, live joyously, live lovingly of yourself.

## The Son as Creator

I am a creator of all that I think and see and experience. I am free always.
Nothing impinges upon me but the thoughts I have chosen to hold within. Nothing
imprisons me but my own perception of imprisonment. Nothing limits me at any
level or dimension of experience save that which I have chosen.

Desire is creation. Therefore, what you desire is of supreme importance.

---

Imagine, then, a pool of clear, still water. And into it you drop a solitary
pebble. And from the pebble there radiate waves. This is what is occurring
constantly in the field of your wave of awareness. And as you have attracted to
yourselves certain persons, places, things, objects and, above all, thoughts,
beliefs, perceptions, you have dropped them like little pebbles into the still
clear pool of your vast and eternal awareness. And what you experience are the
effects, or the ripples, of those pebbles. They literally join with the other
ripples that you’ve created. And as these ripples move out and touch one
another and come back to you, that is the field of creation that makes up your
physical, third-dimensional reality.

You are, therefore, never experiencing anything except what you have chosen to
create through your selection of the pebbles that you have dropped into the
field of your awareness.

---

I am the one who chooses the effects I experience. I, alone, interpret all
neutral relationships or experiences. I, alone, place the value upon objects,
things, thoughts, belief systems. I, alone, am the literal creator of my
moment-to-moment experience.

---

Beloved friends, is it not time to assume complete responsibility for the grand
freedom that has been imparted to you by Abba — Father, Creator, Source of your
being? Is it not time to begin spending time disengaging from your entangled
view that holds you to believe that what you feel and what you think is the
effect of all of the energies and things that are coming at you, from around
you, and begin to use time to decide which pebbles you will drop into the field
of your awareness consistently, day by day, hour by hour, and even breath by
breath?

For these things create your tomorrows, and you cannot ever escape the reality
that you are and always will be in the process of creating your tomorrows.
Death will never separate you from it; denial does not change it. And you are
free to decide what your tomorrows will be through the act of seeking first the
Kingdom, which means to rest into that inner silence in which you know that you
are a wave having arisen with perfect momentum out of the depth of the Ocean of
God’s Holy Mind, and that what you carry with you is the result of the thoughts
and the beliefs and the perceptions — like pebbles that you have dropped into
the wave of your awareness.

---

[Creation and Experience are closely related]

What relationship have you ever entered out of lack of awareness? None. You
dropped the pebble into the mind that said, I want relationship with another
being, another body, another place upon the physical planet.

You’ve always been doing it, and you have always experienced the fruit or the
effect of the quality of vibration of the pebble that has created the ripples
that have become your experiences. In reality, then, your experience, that is,
your awareness, what is true about you, is no different than what is true about
me.

---

For remember well, that you are creating your tomorrows NOW! And what you
experience never comes to you from outside your Self.

---

Beloved friends, even as you abide in your awareness in this moment, you are
the creator of the world you experience. And you do this in so many ordinary
ways.

For when you name anything, you define it according to the factors that you
have built into the name that you use. When you look upon a field of energy
arising from the mystery of your planet Earth and you say the word “tree”, that
fast, you have brought forth, into your manifest experience, everything you
have ever decided on that is associated with the field of energy that you have
called “tree.” And in this way, your experience is entirely unique. It has
never been before; it will never be. Nothing can repeat it. And this is why
Creation is forever new.

---

You are a creator, and you cannot help but create. The question, then, is: What
will you create in each moment? Far beyond the great thrill of the magic of
creating events or objects in third dimensional reality are the qualities that
you create, such as peace, unlimitedness, forgiveness, compassion, wisdom.
These, too, are creations.

Nothing can be said to exist, for you, until you have tasted the lived
experience of it.

---

Never, never believe that your thoughts are neutral. I said earlier events are
neutral, but your thoughts are not. For your thoughts literally are imbued with
the power of creation. They do not create neutrally. That is, every thought
reverberates a quality of vibration that spreads out from you, touches the
shores of manifested reality, and comes back to you. That is what you
experience as the positive and negative events of your life.

At any moment as you go along in your experience, as you experience the
reverberation, the coming back of the ripples you’ve sent out, in that very
moment you are not a victim of what you have created. Because in each such
moment you remain as perfectly free as you were when you first dropped the
pebble into the pond that even created the ripple in the first place. You are
free to choose how you will experience the effect of that ripple. And if you
experience it with unconditional freedom, with unconditional acceptance and
Love, forgiveness, neutrality, innocence, you literally defuse the effects of
that ripple upon the pool of your consciousness. And then, in that moment, you
become instantly free to begin creating, in a new way, the ripples that you
will experience in the future. And this is why you are never a victim of
anyone’s creation, especially your own.

---

Who will you say that you are to this world? For what you decree is, instantly.
There’s no way out of this responsibility. Stop fighting it and birth Christ
where once you thought something less than that has dwelt.

---

All of Creation waits on your welcome.

Creation is innocent. Creation is utterly powerless. It becomes powerful
according to that which you give unto it, the value, the meaning, the purpose,
and the function. These things come not from Creation, Itself, but rather, they
are extended to It, they flow to It, they penetrate Creation through the minds
(which share one Mind) of each and every one of you.

---

When I say that you were created to create, I mean that being made in the
Creator’s image your only function is to serve as a conduit through which the
unfathomable mystery and beauty of Love can be expressed in ways that can be
seen in this world.

Creation, then, is the process in which the creator extends herself/himself
from the world of the formless into the world of form. When you choose to
invite friends to dinner, and have no ulterior agenda except to be with them
and to create a good salad and some soup for them — just because you love them,
because you are in a joyful state of being — you are extending the Presence and
Reality of God.

---

The Peace of Christ comes only to that mind that withdraws valuation from the
past and the future, and surrenders into the present. For only in the present
can Love be felt, known, and extended. Such a mind is a creator. And through
that mind, the perfection of Love’s extension flows — without impediment,
without obstacle, and without mistake.

---

One who Knows is a creator. And a creator is empty of himself, that is, empty
of the self that was made in error. The Knower of Reality is the presence of
Love, the spaciousness through which the Creator extends Its Perfect Will. It
has no attachments and no illusions. It is not run by what other people think
of It. It is not run by what It has accomplished in the past, or what It
perceives It must have in the future.

The mind of one who Knows and rests in true creativity is merely present,
witnessing the extraordinary, mysterious ways of Love.

---

When a wave is cast up out of the ocean, it does not lose its wetness. And who
would say that this wave is better than that wave? And yet, I say unto you, the
mind that chooses one wave over the other is the Mind of God creating Creation.
For in the very moment when one wave is chosen as having a greater value,
experience has been had. And experience is the extension of Creation. You,
therefore, are a Creator, and you create without ceasing. And you remain,
today, exactly as you were when you were created by your Self.

---

You remain free to create whatever you want to perceive. And you do it from
within the mind and you extend it out, you radiate it out, with every thought
you think.

---

It is impossible to extend praise of the Creator without fully loving oneself.
Without embracing and loving the particular manifestation of God as you, you
cannot fully step into the complete expression of the praise of the Creator.

---

The thoughts you hold about yourself will reproduce themselves. When you look
upon all things as good, goodness will be begotten from that decision.

---

### Creating Anew

I think I’ll become a world savior, a Christ. What would that be like?
What vibrations would I need to let go out of my life and which ones would I
need to open to? What would it feel like? What would I see as I look out
through the field of my awareness at Creation? I think I’ll allow myself
to be able to commune with any web of relationship, any soul, any being, that
exists on any plane of Creation. Why, perhaps I’ll even allow myself to know
that I can be in communication with Jeshua ben Joseph. How wealthy can I become
in this third-dimensional reality? How many golden coins could I possibly
create in order to give them away to others? How many places on the planet
could I take a body and plop it down upon, in the span of one short physical
life? How many beings could I say “I love you” to? How big can I make my heart
be? How deep can I experience peace?

The realm of possibilities is as infinite as you are. And the ones you select
and choose are the ones that will create the web of relationships that you will
call your life, your experience, even right down to the quality of how you will
experience the transition, mistakenly called death, in your world.

---

Please understand that no one heals alone. The extension of the good, the holy,
and the beautiful is never done alone. Creation is a collaboration. And this
is why relationship is the means of your salvation. All healing involves the
whole of Creation.

---

