# Experience 2

## Related Topics

Equality, Freedom, Choice, Awareness, Consciousness, Creation, Label, Desire,
Neutral Events, Forgiveness, Value, Fear, Peace, Victim

## Cause of Experience, Creation

Your experience is always the effect of where you choose to focus the
attention of your consciousness.

In each and every moment, what you are experiencing in the realm of your
emotions and mind, and to a latter degree within the body, are there because
you, from your infinite freedom, have simply selected that experience to focus
your attention on so that you can see what the effects are.

Imagine a pool of clear, still water. And into it you drop a solitary pebble.
And from the pebble there radiate waves. This is what is occurring constantly
in the field of your wave of awareness. And as you have attracted to yourselves
certain persons, places, things, objects and, above all, thoughts, beliefs,
perceptions, you have dropped them like little pebbles into the still clear
pool of your vast and eternal awareness. And what you experience are the
effects or the ripples of those pebbles. And as these ripples move out and
touch one another and come back to you, that is the field of creation that
makes up your physical, third-dimensional reality.

You are, therefore, never experiencing anything except what you have chosen to
create through your selection of the pebbles that you have dropped into the
field of your awareness.

As you abide in your awareness in this moment you are the creator of the world
you experience. And you do this in so many ordinary ways.

When you stand face to face with anyone, and for just a split second, you alter
the position of the body through which you gaze upon them — you take up a new
stance, a new perspective — and in that very split second, you have created a
new experience for yourself.

Nothing can be said to exist, for you, until you have tasted the lived
experience of it.

You Are the Light that lights the world. For in being whatever you’ve chosen to
be at any moment, You Are That which generates awareness of experience. And
that is all that We Are as the Mind of God: That which generates experience.
For experience is the extension of Creation.

When a wave is cast up out of the ocean, it does not lose its wetness. And who
would say that this wave is better than that wave? And yet, I say unto you, the
mind that chooses one wave over the other is the Mind of God creating Creation.
For in the very moment when one wave is chosen as having a greater value,
experience has been had. And experience is the extension of Creation. You,
therefore, are a Creator, and you create without ceasing. And you remain,
today, exactly as you were when you were created by your Self.

### Equality: Freedom and Choice, Desire

In reality, each of you is equal; each of you, choosing from your infinite
freedom to attract to yourself certain forms or qualities of experience. That
freedom is what you abide in always. In each and every moment you cannot be a
victim of what you see, and nothing is outside of you. What you experience you
have directly and deliberately called to yourself.

In no circumstance is there anything of Creation that has the power to dictate
to you the choice you will make

Mastery of desire comes when you recognize that you are safe to feel whatever
wave of desire might come up through your consciousness, because you decide
whether or not you will act on it, whether you will bring it into the field of
manifestation. The power of choice is the one power that can never be taken
from you. You already have perfect mastery of it, because nothing you ever
experience comes to you without your decision to allow it into the field of
manifestation.

You are in relationship with all created things and there is a communication
that occurs without ceasing. Imagine being able to look into the air of your
planet and to literally see the radio waves, the TV waves, all of the
electrical waves that keep bouncing back and forth across your planet. This is
what you swim in daily. Your consciousness pervades this field of vibrations.
And you are the one who selects out what you are going to be aware of, what you
are therefore calling into your lived experience. And therefore, you select
what is going to make an imprint upon you.

God extends Creation without ceasing. You will, therefore, always continue to
exist as The One who creates experience. And this is why there is only one
question worth asking,

What do I truly want?

For you will experience the answer to that question. And, in fact, your
experience is the answer to the question.

### Quality of Experience

And you will see that within your consciousness has arisen all saintlihood and
all devilishness. You have been both saint and sinner, and your happiness and
your unhappiness has been merely an effect of where you would choose to place
your attention.

You have a saying in your world, “It is what it is.” And that is the beginning
of wisdom. You will discover that what is, is what you have chosen
to make of it. Be, therefore, where you are now, and deliberately decide to
accept wholly that what you are experiencing in this very moment has no cause
whatsoever except your choice to experience it.

You literally never experience a solitary thing. You do not experience objects.
What you experience is the effect of a thought or a belief in objects. You
never experience another person, for they are made up of a whole web of
vibrations.

#### Neutral Events, Values, Labeling

When you look upon that friend and the mind moves from neutrality, which is
where you begin every experience, into the thought, Oh, that is my friend,
Mary. That is my friend, St. Germain. Oh, that is my friend, Peter. That is my
friend, Joanna. That is my friend, Nathaniel.

Whatever the name may be, when you hold that thought, already do you begin to
change the experience.

You are a literal creator in that moment. For when you name anything, you
define it according to the factors that you have built into the name that you
use. When you look upon a field of energy arising from the mystery of your
planet Earth and you say the word “tree”, that fast, you have brought forth,
into your manifest experience, everything you have ever decided on that is
associated with the field of energy that you have called “tree.” And in this
way, your experience is entirely unique. It has never been before; it will
never be. Nothing can repeat it. And this is why Creation is forever new.

The events that you experience are always neutral. And what you see occurring
in the world around you remains neutral until you make the decision what it
will be for you. You will name it and, therefore, you will define it.  And when
you define it, you call all of the associations of that to your self.

Be careful what you decree. Look to see where you are emotionally enmeshed with
the value you have placed upon anything or anyone, any relationship whatsoever,
whether it be the relationship with your spouse, the relationship with your
government, the relationship with your body, the relationship with your cat or
your dog, the relationship with your bank account — all of your relationships.

For you have made them what they are.

### There is nothing outside you

In every moment of your experience, what you experience is coming
from within you. It is not placed in you from a source outside of yourself. And
in every moment, you remain free to observe and to notice whether you are
having a good time being where you are — that is, being in your perception of
life, and recognizing you have the power to think differently.

Oh, that’s right, I’m not in a traffic jam. There is no such thing as a traffic
jam. Everything is perfect. The red light, the automobiles, all jangled
together — these things do not create my experience.  My experience is flowing
from within. It is being extended outward.

No one has the power to create your experience. No one has the power to limit
your experience. And nowhere in the Laws of God has it ever been written that
you must conform your experience to the choices of another.  You remain free,
to freely choose to be the embodiment of Christ. You are the one who can bless
Creation. And it begins when you are willing to assume responsibility for what
you want to use time for.

All that you experience, everything you see, everything you experience, is the
direct result of where and how you have drawn the lines on the blank canvas of
consciousness. And you are free at any time to erase them and draw differently.

### Life, Value, Suffering, Peace

What have you believed about the world previously? For somewhere, it is
the nature of your thought, the agreements you’ve made unconsciously or
consciously about what things mean, the agreements you have made with the
culture in which you have been birthed, the family into which you have been
birthed, that has actually generated the energy that is showing up as the
effects you experience as your life. What thoughts or beliefs were you holding
within the mind?

If you look closely, you’ll discover that your experience is the value you
place upon the event. Experience actually occurs nowhere but in the field of
the mind.

So where does experience occur? It does not occur at the level of the body-mind
itself. It occurs at the level of mind. And mind shapes experience according to
what it chooses to value.

This is why events of the world can never bind you. All suffering comes because
of the interpretation you are overlaying over events. And in that very moment,
you have used God’s gift to you, which is the power of awareness, to create its
experience.

In any moment of experience, regardless of what is occurring,
where Love is not present within you as a known commodity, you are in fear.

Peace, then, is not a passivity. Peace, the very state of Love, is a state in
which no experience is obstructed within you. Do not make the mistake, as so
many do, of thinking that experience has something to do with what is outside
of the very body-mind. For remember, nothing is caused by a single event
occurring beyond the boundary of the body-mind.

### Rejection of Experience

For you see, it is fear that causes you to be unable to digest what you place
in the body — the body of the emotions, or the body of the mind. It is what
causes stress in the subtle system of the body: the emotional body, the mental
body, the causal body — the subtle nonphysical bodies. What causes the greatest
problem is your refusal to digest what you’ve taken in. And just as food is a
physical substance taken into the body, an experience of any kind is a “food”
that has been called to the soul. Anything that arises that cannot pass through
you, through your willingness to embrace it with Love, to feel it completely,
will cause “indigestion” of the physical, emotional, mental, and causal beings
or bodies.

Therefore learn to digest all things in Love. Learn to digest the traffic jam
in Love. Learn to digest the dying of a pet in Love. Learn to digest an apple
in Love. Learn to digest a hurtful thought in Love. Learn to digest a
misperception that there’s something wrong with the world around you with Love.
Transform all things by the power of your only Reality.

### Transformation of Experience, Desire, Love

Beloved friends, you will only experience what you desire. And that is why
desire is always the first and most fundamental key to the process of
awakening.

You are that power which has been birthed from the Mind of God, made in God’s
image, with infinite power to create what you choose to experience. Desire is
integral to the understanding of the very process of transformation, for what
you desire, you do experience.

Nothing you create can arise by accident. And nothing you experience but calls
you to the field of unchanging and perfect Love that transcends, supersedes,
and underlies all that arises and passes away.

As you think so shall you be. And how you think,
how you choose to perceive and believe, will determine what you see in the
world. And what you believe you see will determine how you act. It will
determine the friends you keep, the kind of career you create, where you live,
and how you feel.

Learn then always to inquire, not out into the world but into yourself — If I
am having this experience, what must I have believed to be true about myself
and about the world?

The truth will come, through prayer and through honesty. And when you discover
it, you will know it. And then use the sovereign power of free choice given
unto you, which is, indeed, the Truth of the Kingdom, to choose otherwise.

### Spirituality

You have heard me say before that the spiritual path cannot begin until a mind
accepts complete responsibility for the entire field of its experience. This
must include the comings and goings of all beings.

