# God

## Description

You have come forth from Pure Intelligence, Pure Love, a source beyond all
comprehension. You have come forth from the Radiance of a Light so bright that
the world cannot see it nor contain it. You have come forth from That which,
alone, is eternally real.

The Mystery beyond comprehension that contains every drop of wisdom and
intelligence necessary to create consciousness itself. And consciousness,
awareness, the power to be aware, the power to choose — this is what you truly
are.

Well, imagine being God — infinite, vast, without a top or bottom or a left or
a right, filled with nothing but pure, unconditional, radiant Love!

That Love which God Is is incomprehensible forever! 

And God is but Love.

God is infinite and perfect freedom. That which I refer to as God simply never
deviates from desiring only the extension of Love, the birthing of that which
is like unto Himself–you.

The matrix of Love, which is the presence of the Father, the Pure Intelligence,
the Field in which all things arise and pass away and never changes, that
Field is like a canvas upon which the Grand Artist paints.

For nothing can be outside of what God Is.

And God is but Love. God is the Wisdom of the Christ Mind. God is the Sonship.

## Creation

That first level of Creation was Pure Spirit. This first level of Creation
never changes. It is as God, Itself.

The Father looks upon you and says, This is My only creation and it is very
good.

He looked upon all of Creation, which literally means
not just this planet but all of an infinite number of creations of dimension
upon dimension upon dimension, and all little webs of relationships called
souls that He brought into existence in one split second and said,

The Sunbeam can never comprehend the Sun. I am a Sunbeam to that Sun. You are a
Sunbeam to that Sun.  We are therefore made of One Substance, and that
Substance alone sustains us throughout eternity.

God is the reality that shines through everything, that is present in the very
material that makes up the chair in which you are sitting, that literally
pervades the thing that you call the body that you think is so dense and hard.

There is nothing that you see that is not pervaded by the Perfect
Radiance of God’s Holy Presence–nothing. The stone, a leaf, a piece of paper
blown by the wind, even the shoutings of fear and anger from anyone yet
contains within it–if you would receive it–the Perfect Love of God. For your
Father does not ever recoil or withdraw from the unlimited and perfect
Extension of Himself. 

Christ is God’s only creation. Christ is that medium, if you will, through
which the unfathomable, mysterious, beyond-comprehension Source that I have
called Abba, extends Itself into the creation of temporary forms to reflect,
throughout the Universe, that which the Universe Itself is made of — where it
comes from, what it is enveloped within, and that to which it eternally
returns.

Yes, in the end, you can even say that God has created nothing.

And God’s Creation occurs nowhere. That is, It has no location. The planet
Earth, the bodies that inhabit it, the physical universe in which the planet
Earth is spinning about — all of these things are not at all unlike what you
experience when you close your eyes and imagine having ice cream.

God sees Himself, appearing as you, doing exactly what you are doing in each
and every moment.

## Purpose of Creation

Lo, it is very good! This is My play! And My joy and My Love and My aliveness
has poured forth and overflowed My Grand Being and brought forth into manifest
creation — you!

Your treasure is your Reality as the unlimited, holy and only begotten Child of
God. You are a field of consciousness through which the Father would extend
Himself.

Whose only will is to extend That Which He Is, forever — unbounded, unlimited.
And God is but Love.

In Its desire to create, the One becomes what you perceive as the many, yet
remains always the One.

God gives rise to God, looking back upon Himself. Mystery of pure content gives
rise to temporary form in order that Pure Mystery might be apprehended.

## God's Relationship to His Creation

You abide in a relationship — created to Creator, offspring or child to parent
— that is so intimate, a bond so deep, that it cannot be broken at any time. In
each and every moment of your experience, do you abide in a union so powerful,
so mysterious, so intimate and immediate that the mind cannot comprehend it.

If I search the languages of your world, I cannot find a concept, a word, an
idea, a philosophy, a dogma that can contain, in Truth, the Mystery that is
closer to you than your own breath and awaits your discovery.

The Mystery that is closer to you than your own breath and awaits your discovery.

If you are aware, in this moment, it is because you are One with the Source of
all Creation and cannot be separated from It in any way or at any time?

>> Summary ~ 10402000.052

I’ve said many times that the Father looks upon you and says, This is My only
creation and it is very good.

If I search the languages of your world, I cannot find a concept, a word, an
idea, a philosophy, a dogma that can contain, in Truth, the Mystery that is
closer to you than your own breath and awaits your discovery.


