
>> Summary ~ 10315000.031

Only Love heals.

>> Summary ~ 10406000.009

Love is never possessive. Love is never fearful. Love is simply Love. Love
cannot shine with specialness upon anyone at any time.

>> Summary ~ 10406000.01

Love does wait upon your welcome. And Love resides within you as the Core and
the Source of your very being.

>> Summary ~ 10406000.043

Love fulfills all things. Love embraces all things. Love heals all things, and
Love transforms all things.

>> Summary ~ 10407000.064

Forgiveness lives on the side of the fence with Love, and only Love can heal
this world

>> Summary ~ 10407000.07

For Love is, indeed, patient and kind. Love is not
deluded, and Love does not allow delusion. Love embraces all things, trusts all
things, allows all things and knows perfectly well where it’s going, and never
ceases in that journey until every blade of grass is released from casting
shadows, and the whole of Creation is returned to the Heart of God.

>> Summary ~ 10411000.016

Mind reaches out forever, but it reaches only to Itself. Therefore, every word
that I share with you is already present within you. Here, does Love abide,
alone. And there is no space for anything unlike Love. This is why every loving
thought is true, for it arises not from the superficial or the surface level of
the mind that generates thoughts merely in reaction to other thoughts. But Love
emerges from the depth of the heart that transcends what you know to be your
body and your mind, your feedback mechanism.

>> Summary ~ 10502000.022

Now, the grand thing about Love is this: It does not require any set of
conditions to exist before It does.

>> Summary ~ 10502000.039

You are wholly dependent at all times on the pervasive Reality of Love, which
has given you existence out of Its desire to extend Its treasure–joy.

And yet, you are free to cultivate the ability to perceive the real world–to
see, to know, to feel, to taste, to be, to extend That which is Real. And only
Love meets that definition.

>> Summary ~ 10503000.068

For in Love there is only peace. And in Love there is only the infinitude of
Pure Spirit. In Love is Christ restored to your consciousness. In Love are you
returned.

>> Summary ~ 10504000.005

For Love seeks only to extend Itself.

>> Summary ~ 10505000.053

Love is the great healer. Love–that which erases the imprints in the depth of
the subtle soul.

>> Summary ~ 10509000.013

And Love alone heals all things.

>> Summary ~ 10510000.033

For Love, alone, embraces all things, trusts all things, allows all things, and
thereby, transcends all things, and need no longer live in fear that those
things can run it.

>> Summary ~ 10601000.012

For Love is unfathomable. You cannot control it. Love is vast beyond all
measure. You cannot contain it. Love cannot be possessed. It can only be
allowed.

>> Summary ~ 10601000.025

Love allows all things, trusts all things, embraces all things, and therefore
transcends all things.

For in Truth suffering does not exist. Only the Reality of Love can exist.

>> Summary ~ 10601000.045

For Love does not resist anything. Love embraces all things. Love
desires all things. Love awakens to the Truth that only God is, and God would
embrace the totality of His Creation through you, as you, in you, for you and
for Himself!

>> Summary ~ 10602000.039

In Perfect Love, there is no possessiveness. In Perfect Love, there is perfect
allowing. In Perfect Love - guess what? There isn’t even you! There is only God
loving through you!

>> Summary ~ 10602000.041

Whenever you see any object, whether it be a body, a person, a mind, a thing, a
flower, a pencil - it doesn’t matter - when you feel what you call “being Love”
evoked within you, it is because in that moment you’ve slipped between the
cracks of the world, of the egoic mind, and you are experiencing the essential
content of Reality: Love. You are experiencing your own living true Reality,
for only Love is Real. When you come to see that that Love can be experienced
at any moment, in any situation, with anyone, with any flower...

>> Summary ~ 10602000.052

Love cannot possess.

>> Summary ~ 10604000.073

Love heals all things. Love transmutes all things. Love embraces all things,
and thereby, transcends all things.

>> Summary ~ 10607000.023

Love is unconditional. Love merely loves in order to abide in Its own nature.
God is but Love.

>> Summary ~ 10607000.082

Love can never crumble, because it is the content which
is the presence of God’s Reality. Because Love is content, it is unchangeable,
unchanged, and unchanging forever.

>> Summary ~ 10607000.087

Only Love is Real. Only Love allows you to transcend the
great fear, the great suffering, that comes only from a temporary, mistaken
identity problem — an authority problem.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.005

Only Love is Real.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.006

Love, beloved friends, is the essence of all that you are. Love is the essence
of all that dances as a temporary reflection before the eyes of your very
body-mind. There is nothing you can look upon whose essence is not Love. There
is nothing you can experience whose essence is not Love.

For Love looks upon all things and sees that there is no substance to them,
except the Love out of which those involved in that situation were longing to
find a way to know the Reality of themselves.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.036

Love does not condemn, and Love does not judge. And what is not Love is fear,
and nothing else. Therefore, remember always, precious friends, that no act of
Love should ever be judged. For each act of Love is to be cherished.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.037

For Love denies not to anyone the perfect freedom that is the sovereignty and
right of every soul.

Love allows all things.  Love embraces all things. Love trusts all things, and
thereby, immediately transcends all things.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.039

For Love is satiated in its own being.  Love overflows. Love sets all things
free. Love sets the world free to be as the world is. Love sees perfect
harmlessness. Love sees that because things are as they are, they are as they
are.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.042

Love sees, then, that the world that is shown to you through the body-mind, this world of torment,
this world of peace, this world that contains all possible expressions of
consciousness — this world is perfectly harmless.

When your Love is so complete, it no longer matters if
the body-mind exists tomorrow? For where would you go? You are but the Field of
Love Itself. Your essence is unchanging forever. You are Pure Spirit.

>> Summary ~ 10608000.056

Love is the ability to be wholly present with what is, devouring it like
a child devours candy:

>> Summary ~ 10611000.03

Love is not conditioned by the conditions of the world.

>> Summary ~ 10605000.025

When the mind unconditionally loves, it loves first itself and places no
conditions upon what it receives as ideas from the universe.

In unconditional loving, karma does not exist. In its mature state, in its
spiritual state, unconditional loving means that the mind has awakened and seen
that nothing that occurs in life can cause it to contain or withdraw its Love.
In the perfection of Unconditional Love, the mind simply loves. Karma, then,
cannot be said to exist, because that mind is no longer experiencing effects
coming back at it. It has transcended the world of cause and effect and,
regardless of what arises, it merely loves. And who can be imprisoned who
simply loves?

So there is a transcendence of karma through Unconditional Love. And
Unconditional Love is always the fruit of the decision to love oneself. You
love yourself because you finally recognize that you might as well.  That’s
all. You love the Self because your Creator loved you enough to create the
Self.

>> Summary ~ 10605000.034

Unconditional Love transforms the experience of the body into
something quite different. Unconditional Love of Self translates the life of
the body-mind — the life of paying taxes, the life of keeping your car well
oiled … all of it is translated so that the world becomes not something that
proves your unworthiness, your separation, but rather, as a medium of
communication in which magic, in a sense, is always at play, miracle-mindedness
is always at play.

