
# Mind of God

Consciousness is the gift of Life, streaming forth from the Mind of God.

# Your Mind

Your mind is unlimited forever. Your body is as a drop of foam being expressed
at the slightest tip of one wave in an infinite ocean. That ocean is itself
within the unlimited expanse of your Mind. You are Consciousness as such, Pure
Spirit.

The world remains uncaused by anything outside your own mind.

All awakening and all transformation occurs only in the mind.

The key to the transformation of your lived experience, while the body lasts,
is to assume complete responsibility for how you are choosing to use the mind.

Thoughts and ideas cannot enter your mind, over which you have complete
dominion, unless you have sent it an invitation.

The mind is your domain and the mind is your self. It has certain components:
an emotional component, or expression; an egoic component, or expression. The
ego, in itself, isn’t right, wrong, good, bad; it simply is. The mistake–the
knot in the rope, the blip on the screen — is merely the mistaken
identification of your self with the ego.

Within you, then, even in this very moment, there abides a part of the mind
that already knows the Truth that sets all things free.  That part of the mind
can be accessed at any time by any one under any condition.

That part of the mind is like an empty and open channel. Nothing can obscure
its purity — nothing. Nothing you have ever done, nothing you have ever
thought, nothing you’ve ever miscreated obscures the perfect silence, the utter
purity, of your connection with the Source of your being.

# The Mind

Mind is everything.

Mind is vast, eternal, and unlimited. Mind is what every being that you know
participates in, like waves participating in the ocean.

# The One Mind of Christ

Within the One Mind of Christ individuation occurs, individual waves arise,
made of the same substance, perfect freedom, perfect knowledge of and union
with God. In that freedom, the power to decide or to desire is present. And
desire begets worlds without end. 

## Death

The mind that is free from the illusions of death is that very mind that learns
to dance with death, to enter into any moment or relationship, knowing that
because the body is engaged, it must come to an end.

The mind that can embrace all phenomena that arise and pass away with passion,
with joy, with aliveness, with innocence, with simplicity - that mind cannot
taste death. 

## Fear

The mind that becomes the one who is no longer in fear, no longer in
resistance, is the mind that has forgiven all things, including itself.

## Allowance

Through your cultivation of allowance, the grace filled willingness to know
that that which arises is already passing away, and you might as well not
lament it. The mind that lamets it is the mind imprisoned in delusion. The mind
that allows all things is the mind that is already freely beyond all things.

## Form

The world of form — whether dollars in a bank, houses, cars, people, friends,
lovers, pets, plants, and all of the rest — the world of form, in itself, can
never be the source of perfect freedom. These things arise and pass away and
are like ephemeral shadows, wisps of foam dancing in an ocean. When the mind
becomes identified with the form, that mind suffers. When the mind is liberated
from attachment to form, it is free, for it is identified only with content, or
simply the Reality of Love.

## Experience

So where does experience occur? It does not occur at the level of the body-mind
itself. It occurs at the level of mind. And mind shapes experience according to
what it chooses to value.

# Right Mind

For the mind in right-mindedness serves only the Voice for God. It no longer
has any interest in defending the voice of egocentricity.

# The Mind Free and at Peace

## Vulnerability

The mind which is free and at peace is no longer conflicted within itself. An
unconflicted mind abides in perfect vulnerability. It has learned to embrace
and accept the Truth about the phenomena of the mind itself. It is willing to
begin to be honest, no longer is there pretense, manipulation or control. 

## Peace, Present

The Peace of Christ comes only to that mind that withdraws valuation from the
past and the future, and surrenders into the present.

The mind, then, that is free, free from the egoic need to make, to control, to
shape, the mind that is free from identification with the past and anxiety over
the future, abides in the perfectly eternal now — for no other reason than to
receive the awareness that it abides in Love’s perfect presence, and then
allows that mysterious Reality through that mind, right where it is, as it is.

# The Conflicted Mind/Insane Mind/Egoic Mind

The mind in conflict with itself is dangerous to itself, and to everyone else
in all dimensions. Beware of the viciousness of the ego within your own mind.

The mind has used its own power to be in denial about its own miscreations. It
doesn’t want to own them. It doesn’t want to embrace them. It wants very much
for you and itself to believe that it’s really a very high spiritual being. And
it will wear the sheep’s clothing of the ego, of the persona, the mask, the
self-image, the projected image into the social world. And it will cling to
that like a robe around the body, held against the cold winter wind; and it
will cling to it, no matter what. Such a mind is an insane mind, and an insane
mind is hurtful. An insane mind limits the flow of Love through it that could
heal this world.

Any time your mind has fallen under the power of the egoic mind, which is just
to choose wrongly and insanely for a moment, the Reality of your being never
goes away. It’s never changed or altered in any way. All that has occurred is
that you have used time to lose awareness of the Truth. And in the next moment,
you are free to choose again.

The egoic mind arises in the morning already believing it knows what this one
day is for, and this day can have no purpose but the sustaining of the
authority of the ego and trying again to make the world conform to what the
egoic mind believes must be so.

The making mind misses all knowledge.The making mind has no room in it to
receive anything new because it has already decided what the truth is, what it
should look like, and what it should sound like. It misses the moment in which
it can observe, be the conduit for, and the one who is creating, an experience
of Love.

# The Awakened Mind

## Description

The Awakened Mind no longer feels any resistance to the things of time. It no
longer tries to get rid of time, no longer tries to make things stay the same.
The Awakened Mind can embrace all things, trust all things, and thereby,
transcends all things instantly, even in the midst of change.

The Mind that is Awakened serves only the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is
merely Right-mindedness. And what is Right-mindedness if not True Knowledge?

## In the world

An Awakened being in the world simply delights and has fun — from a state of
clarity of knowing that whatever they choose to do with the body-mind is merely
a free choice based on what they’re choosing to value in the moment. And if
they own that valuation, they can totally enjoy the experience they’re having.

And then, they have come full circle. If they want to design a website, if they
want to be a banker, if they want to be a dancer, a prostitute, a farmer — it
no longer matters! For the mind that is awake, while the body lasts, merely
sees experience arise and pass away. It takes total ownership and realizes that
It has the power to create its experience as being delightful, fulfilling, and
a blessing — regardless of what the body-mind is actually doing.

It doesn’t matter if you are a teacher standing at the shores of a great lake
in what you now call your Israel, standing at a boat, talking to a hoard of
hundreds, or perhaps seeing if you can actually make a few fish and loaves of
bread feed five thousand,

Oh! How about that! That was fun!

There is no difference between that and driving a truck in New York City and
delivering frozen fish, if the mind within the soul is taking complete
ownership and delighting in the mystery of creating experience, and chooses to
bring enjoyment and freedom to that moment.

# Mind in Perfect Surrender/Healed Mind

The mind that exists in perfect surrender sees absolutely no purpose to any
moment of experience other than to be the conduit through which the Mind of
God, the Love of God, is expressed.

## All Events are Neutral

It sees that at no time has it experienced anything but its own outpicturing.
This is why all events are neutral. It is mind that interprets an event, draws
a conclusion, and then bases behavior upon it.

The mind that is surrendered looks out upon all things and says within itself,
"There has only been God. And I am the reated of That. The source of my being,
the source of my reality, rests in surrender into That, and That alone."

## Innocence, Forgiveness

The mind that is healed and rests in surrender looks out upon an innocent world
that has been touched by its blessing of forgiveness. And that forgiveness is
simply a step in which that mind recognizes that the world it had thought was
there was nothing more than its own mental creation. 

It smiles and laughs and sees that the world has held no power, and that all
events have arisen, all interpretations of events, have been generated from
within the kingdom of the mind, the one place that it is given unto you to
assume responsibility for, as your domain.

## Healing

The mind that has been healed of illusion has been healed of all illusions. And
the last outpicturing of a tiny mad idea, called the physical body, can be
given over to something else, can be transformed into a simple communication
device that communicates forgiveness and innoccence.

The Healed Mind is One which accepts Its True Knowingness:

I and my Father are One. Only Love is real. I cannot possibly be a victim of
what I see, since what I see is what I choose to see.  And if I choose to see
with the Eyes of Love, all I see is perfect innocence and the Will of my Father
clearly at work.

The Healed Mind is simply One that rests in that simple Reality.  It has merely
trained Itself to always choose for the Voice for Love, that’s all. It doesn’t
matter what arises and passes away.  The Healed Mind is not a mind that can
make whatever It wants to happen, happen. That is the egoic attempt to become
absolutely powerful.

And the Awakened Mind is awakened to the ever-present flow of content,
pervading all form, at all time. This is why, for the Awakened Mind, loss is
not possible, and death is seen as unreal.  For death can pertain only to the
form.

## Death is Unreal

The Healed Mind does not plan. It does not plan what the day shall be for. It
merely surrenders into Love and allows Love to birth the day.

The Awakened Mind knows that this day has no purpose, save that which the
Creator would give to it — through the Mind, through the Self. And so, It seeks
first the Kingdom and then all things are added unto It. The day flows out of
Its surrender to Love.

A Healed Mind is not interested in making. Its only interest is the delight and
joy of creating. It merely shows up where it is asked to be.  The Healed Mind
is no longer attached to the world’s definitions of success or failure. For
those pertain to the realm of making. It is no longer attached to what others
think of Its creation, for It trusts the Mystery that has birthed It and that
operates through It in each moment.

The relaxed mind absorbs all knowledge. The relaxed and healed mind is like a
sponge that is constantly learning and being shaped by what it learns. 


